Here's my reconstruction.

When the entwives fled the destruction of their garden lands north of
Mordor, and the ents set out in search of them, the people the ents met
told them that the entwives had gone east, or west, or south, or that they
hadn't seen them at all. Conspicuously, the northerly direction is left
out. Since the ents found no surviving entwives anywhere, and some at least
probably escaped the destruction alive, it seems likely that they fled
north up the Anduin to Rhovanion. There they lived for a while as
agricultural slaves (as Tolkien speculates, in Letters I think), passing
away before the ents finish looking everywhere else and finally turn there
attention north.

It also seems likely that their human captors interbred with the entwives.
The result was a race essentially human, but having special characteristics
from their alien ancestry, comparable to the elf-spawned dunedain. One such
trait was their inability to grow to full stature without proper entish
nourishment, i.e. entdraughts; with half of their nature undeveloped, they
grew to only half the height of a grown man. Like the roots of a plant or a
seed not yet sprouted, they tended to live underground. They preferred
green and yellow, the colors of vegetation. They inhereted undiminished the
entwives' preference for gardening, order, and peace. Most of them had hair
on their feet, suggestive of roots, and never wore shoes even outdoors.
Their physical traits and birthrate, like those of plants, were influenced
by their environments -- becoming more elvish among elves, dwarflike among
dwarves, without interbreeding, growing most populous in the most fertile
lands of Eriador, and most tellingly, having a boom of yellow-haired (like
the entwives) babies under the influence of elven fertilizer.

They had forgotten their ancestory by the time they settled in the empty
lands of Arnor, if they ever knew it, but once in a long while a few of
them must have strayed into Fangorn forest and met their distant relatives
the ents. Now, the ents are noted for taking the long view of things, which
is just as well since they appearantly can't see very well at all at close
range, let alone what's right under their noses. I imagine the ent's
conversation was like this: "Hello. I almost took you for a stunted orc.
What are you? You don't seem to be mentioned in the list of free peoples.
It's prophesied that we ents will meet the entwives again, somewhere,
somehow. Oh, where can they have gone? Here, have a drink. Oops, for a
moment I forgot and thought you were an enting. You sound so familiar. Say,
you've grown a couple of inches. Hasty folk usually just get sick when they
drink a bowl of plant food. Your country sounds just like the kind of place
the entwives would have loved. You say you live underground? Sounds nice
and proper, from an entish point of view."
