Beleriand - Saturday, November 10, 2001, 12:18 PM
-------------------------------------------------



Curufin. says, "Welcome, folks. The class you are about to receive is the
result of a lot of hard work and thinking on Glinirnaeth's part. So please be
respectful. If you have questions or slight disagreements, you are welcome to
bring them up, I think. But save debates for later. This is Glinirnaeth's turn
to shine. Thank you."

Glinirnaeth says, "Ok, let's get started. I titled this class "Feanorian theme
- Or "Who was Tolkien?"" because before looking at the culture specifically, I
want to make sure we have a similar background within the context of who came
up with it, which may perhaps open some new perspectives on some events that
were not obvious without those details. As such, let us start with that
question: "Who was Tolkien?" I'd like you to come up with some cues, and
there's no need to come up with something fancy, you can keep it very basic."

Curufin. says, "A Roman Catholic..."

Elsabet says, "Linguistics Expert.."

Ardonion says, "A professor"

Curufin. says, "Yeah, Philologist."

Haelfdane says, "A veteran"

Elsabet says, "That's the word. :)"

Not really knowing, Sirithil simply listens for now.

Armoril says, "A storyteller."

Ardonion nods to Haelf, a wounded one, also.

Curufin. says, "A romantic. ;>"

Armoril :nods at Curu's.

Glinirnaeth says, "Ok, let's start with the philologist. What languages was he
interested in?"

Curufin. says, "Old Icelandic, Anglo-Saxon..."

Ardonion says, "Finnish, AngloSaxon."

Curufin. says, "He was of course familiar with Latin, French, Greek, I think."

Ardonion nods to Curu.

Aldawin says, "He did not like his own 'Black Speech' interestingly enough ;)"

Curufin. says, "And he was a master of modern English. :>"

Elsabet nods. British schooling back then required those. He even started out
as a classics major, but that focused too much on greek and latin, and he got
frustrated..

Ardonion nods...and found Old English to have much interesting incident
largely unkown and yet interesting.

Curufin. says, "Heh, just like Albion in the story. ;>"

Glinirnaeth says, "If we look at icelandic/norse and aglo-saxon, to what group
of people do these languages belong in the larger sense?"

Ardonion says, "The teutonic"

Curufin. says, "Germanic."

Dinuil says, "Germanic?"

Dinuil says, "Heh. :)"

Haelfdane says, "Most of western Europe at some point or another"

Glinirnaeth nods. So he had an interest in Germanic languages, and finnish.
Let's look at one of the other points mentioned. he was a storyteller. When he
set out to write the complex of stories and histories that later became the
Silmarillion, what did he originally intend to write?

Armoril says, "Mythology for England ..."

Haelfdane says, "A mythos"

Haelfdane nods

Ardonion says, "The National Myth for England, centered in Warwickshire."

Curufin. says, "First, a story to go with the languages. Secondly, and
probably more importantly, a purely English mythology. *nods*"

Arndis has arrived.

Armoril says, "Oh, and yeah, Curu. A story in which to use his invented
languages."

Glinirnaeth nods. Now what would a mythology for England look like,
theoretically? Given the cultural background of England, where would its roots
be?
Ardonion says, "In the conflict between Gaul and Gael. Adding in the assaults
from No Europe, would be the story of continual invasion and inclusion of
later peoples."

Armoril says, "Vikings?"

Ardonion nods..but very late in this sense, Armie.

Curufin. says, "He wanted to justify the Anglo-Saxons as the rightful rulers
of the island. It would incorporate the tale of Hengest and Horsa. It would
talk about the battles for the island. It would stem from Germanic and Celtic
mythoi.."

Armoril nods to Ardo.

Ardonion hmms to Curu..actually, he would establish that the A-S were
themselves invaders. 
Only the original Britons, the Elder Ones, as it were, had a true right. These
would be the form for the later 'Quende', pushed to one side and marginalized.
Boorman uses the same idea for 'Excalibur'.

Glinirnaeth says, "Give me a sec. The A-S were not invaders in the truest of
senses, but there is a point in it :)"

Curufin. says, "No, I disagree. Tolkien wanted to show that the Anglo-Saxons
(the English) were the ones who had the true right to the island, not the
British. Hengest and Horsa are the sons of Eriol/Aelfwine..."

Ardonion nods to Curu. True, but they themselves arrive after the seven
invasions, coming to 'save the day' as twere, but unable to restore the
original beauty of British life and custom.

Curufin. nods. "Yes."

Ardonion meant British in the most archaic sense. The Gaels.

Curufin. says, "The rightful rulers of the island are, of course, the Elves.
In the original myth, the island was Tol Eressea itself."

Curufin. says, "Or perhaps I should say "original" rather than "rightful""

Glinirnaeth nods. If we look at the history of England, the first major
"outside" influence after the Romans left the original population to fend for
themselves were Angles and Saxons invited to come to Britain to help against
incursion from the Picts in the north. Unfortunately for the Britons, they
decided that if the Britons can't run the country without them, they just
might run it themselves. They called in more of their kin from the mainland
and took over. So we have established a germanic people in Britain. This was
however, constantly threatened by invasions of the Norse, Vikings, who for
some time ruled large parts of England, called the Danelaw. As such, we would
certainly see a large germanic influence, be it via Angles and Saxons, or by
Norvegians.

Glinirnaeth grins. Let's not get sidetracked, folks :)

Curufin. says, "No problem, take us where you want to go. :>"

Ardonion nods also. You be the prof here, Glinir.

Glinirnaeth says, "So both from a cultural perspective, and from Tolkien's
professional interest, we have a strong germanic factor in there. Other
influences, which Tolkien points out himself in his letters, are the Finnish
factor, and of course, some Celtic issues."

Glinirnaeth says, "In the course of his shaping of his world, Tolkien does not
even hesitate to go into detail borrowing from the original real world
mythology, as the example of Turin Turambar shows, which is very closely
related to the character of Kullervo in the finnish Kalevala. He, too, marries
his sister, and he, too, dies by throwing himself into his own blade after
exchanging some words with it, only as some examples. But I'd like to stay on
the germanic track for now."

Armoril says, "Another similarity worth mentioning is the superhuman strenght
of Kullervo, unfitting for crafts requiring precision."

Curufin. nods. "It's a mythology. It happens in an imaginary time. It has
parallels in other mythologies."

Glinirnaeth says, "If we say that there would be elements from germanic, or
norse, mythology, what does this mythology look like? While many know the
norse pantheon, the myths told about men are not as broadly known. "I'd like
to quote from an "Introduction to old Norse" I have, a book, btw, for which
Tolkien himself proofread the grammatical part. Since most of the literature
we have left from that time _is_ mythology, it gives an introduction to that
area:"

Armoril says, "I believe everyone can guess what happened to the sister after
she found out. :)"

Glinirnaeth notes he will spam you now and then give you a few moments to read
:)

Arndis grins.

Glinirnaeth says, ""The most frequent motive of heroic conduct was the desire
for revenge. In Icelandic society revenge for manslaughter was a sacred duty
as well as private satisfaction, and occupied the place of punishment by the
state in modern society. it was usually carried out in much the same spirit;
most men in the sagas did not feel vengeful in their vengeance, but were
merely dutiful. Flosi, the burner of Njal, admired and respected Njal and his
sons, and took up the blood-feud against them with reluctance; yet once he had
taken it up, no one could have been more ruthless. Similarly, Gizur felt no
personal resentment against Gunnar; he also admired the man he thought he was
doing justice on. As the duty of revenge supplied one of the strongest motives
of that society, the heroic authors frequently used it as one choice of a
tragic alternative, in which duty and honor are weighed against one of the
more natural ties, such as kinship. The hero or heroine was ready to sacrifice
even his kin, if necessary, for revenge. Thus Hervor in 'The Waking of
Agantyr' had to obtain the sword Tyrfing for her vengeance, and she faced
ghostly terrors to get it, though she knew it would also destroy her own son;
and Signy in 'Volsunga Saga' sacrificed her children without compunction in
the cause of vengeance. In the old poems especially it was a favorite device
to increase tragedy by entangling the duties of revenge with those of kinship,
producing the same tragic problem as in Shakespeare's 'Hamlet'."

Sirithil is spammed. x.x

Arndis falls over.

Haelfdane hehs, "Passable pose, Glin ;_)

Ardonion nods...sounds like Achilles in 'The Iliad' as well, btw.

Glinirnaeth wonders if anyone is not finished by now?

Sirithil is done.

Armoril says, "I am."

Curufin. says, "I am finished."

Ardonion says, "Done."

Elsabet is too.

Dinuil says, "Me too."

Glinirnaeth says, "So, recapitulating, the conflict between duty for revenge
and personal preference is a standard motive in norse mythology. And the
result was regularly for duty, even at the expense of lives of loved ones. Not
because it was question of _choice_, but an issue of _duty_. Doing what you
_have_ to do, against all odds and hardships."

Armoril says, "And could we say that it is tradition that determines how
things has to be done?"

Elsabet nods. Like Hamlet, again.

Ardonion nods..also Achilles, again.

Haelfdane says, "Speaking of Achilles...Hector was bound in such fashion even
moreso, when speaking of Duty"

Haelfdane says, "But that's kind of a tangent, sorry ;)"

Ardonion nods to Haelf. quite true. Tradition here is limited and means proper
execution of duty, not the means by which duty is satisfied.

Glinirnaeth says, "As another example, looking at the end of the world in
Norse mythology, the Ragnarok, the dawn of Gods: The Gods KNOW they will lose,
they KNOW it is the end of the world. But they go and fight anyway. Not
because they have any hopes of cheating fate, but simply because that is what
they have to do. Now Tolkien himself is of course, as was mentioned, Roman
Catholic, and not an adherant of old Norse religion. Nevertheless, he states
himself in his letters that he adores the indomitable Norse spirit. The norse
warrior may be broken in body, but never in spirit. Now how is the old norse
way reconcilable with the christian way? The answer, for Tolkien, is in fact
quite simple: In England. It was in England that the Anglo-Saxons were
christianized, and later absorbed many of the Norse. And in fact, with
original christianity being a religion of martyrdom, obedience to duty and, if
necessary, self-sacrifice, a reconcilable motives between the two. Putting the
two religions opposite each other is something Tolkien also does in his
"Homecoming of Beorhtnoth", his reinterpretation of an old english fragment on
the battle of Maldon."

Sirithil nods. "Very true."

Glinirnaeth says, "As a short primer, in the battle, the Danes were encamped
on an island in a river, IIRC, connected to the land by a causeway. Now
Beorhtnoth could have slaughtered them as they came over the causeway, but
they taunted him that it would not be a fair fight, and he agreed to let them
come over, leading to him and his men being the ones slaughtered. Where others
had seen a praise of Beohtnoth's heroism, Tolkien sees a criticism of his
"overmod", considering it heroism to the excess. In the short play Tolkien
writes on the issue, he was two monks searching Beorthnoth's body among the
slain, one projecting the norse view of great deed by great warriors, the
other pointing out that they now are christians, and supposed to mourn for the
slain who died in vain for the greater glory of one man."

Glinirnaeth says, "err, ofermod"

Curufin. nods.

Glinirnaeth says, "Now let's keep this duality -sacrificing others for the
sake of your own glory or duty, and sacrificing yourself for the greater good-
in mind as we take a closer look at the history of the Noldor."

Glinirnaeth says, "Let's look first at the world itself, though. we still have
the Valar as a pantheon resembling the norse or greek gods, or those of other
polytheistic religions. Over them, however, is Eru Illuvatar, as the
judeo/christian/muslim one-god who specifically says that, no matter how hard
others may try, they will _in the end_, in the long run, only fulfill his
plans -as befits an all-powerful, all-knowing one-god. He creates humans and
elves alone, without the aid of the others, and the latter to teach and guide
the first, until they can "stand on their own feet"."

Glinirnaeth says, "However, as soon as the elves awaken, the following
happens:"

Glinirnaeth says, "(from "Of the coming of the Elves"):Then again the Valar
were gathered in council, and they were divided in debate. For some, and of
those Ulmo was the chief, held that the Quendi should be left free to walk as
they would in Middle-Earth and with their gifts of skill to order all lands
and heal their hurts. But the most part feared for the Quendi in the dangerous
world amidst the deceit of the starlit dusk; and they were filled moreover
with the love of the beauty of the elves and desired their fellowship. At the
last, therefore, the Valar summoned the Quendi to Valinor, there to be
gathered at the knees of the Powers in the lights of the Trees forever; and
Mandos broke his silence, saying "So it is doomed." From this summons came
many woes that afterwards befell."

Haelfdane says, "Mandos..ever optimistic.. ;)"

Sirithil nods.

Sirithil says, "Only the first of many miscalculations on the part of the
Valar, IMO."

Glinirnaeth says, "So Tolkien says us that this summons, in itself, was
problematic. If the Elves are in Valinor, how are they supposed to teach the
men, except for those refusing to go?"

Sirithil nods. "They can't."

Curufin. says, "You can tell whose 'side' Tolkien is on in these Valar
debates--invariably Ulmo's."

Sirithil says, "Ulmo's cool. ^_^"

Haelfdane hehs, "And of course, the ones that stayed didn't do much teaching
;)

Sirithil says, "Exactly."

Glinirnaeth says, "So Eru's plan has to find another way to get accomplished.
Ironically, the foundations are set the next time someone is not content with
Eru's plan:"
Glinirnaeth says, "from letter 212: "In the Elvish legends there is record of
a strange case of an Elf (Miriel, mother of Feanor) that tried to _die_, which
had disastrous results, leading to the 'Fall' of the High-elves. The Elves
were not subject to disease, but they could be 'slain': that is their bodies
could be destroyed, or mutilated as to be unfit to sustain life. But this did
not lead naturally to 'death': They were rehabilitated and reborn and
eventuall recovered memory of their past:They remained 'identical'. But Miriel
wished to abandon being, and refused rebirth. 

With an asterisk, a note was added, apparently later: 

It was also the Elvish (and uncorrupted Numenorean) view that a 'good' Man
should die voluntarily by surrender with trust before being compelled (as did
Aragorn). This may have been the nature of unfallen man:though compulsion
would not threaten him: he would desire and ask to 'go on' to a higher state.
..." (Note goes on to elaborate on the Assumption of Mary)"

Curufin. says, "Oh, the Avari taught them language and other basics, but it
was only those taught by the High Elves that could escape from being 'Men of
the Darkness'."

Sirithil nods to Glin and Curufin.

Armoril says, "Though this 'darkness' doesn't necessarely mean 'evil', right,
Curu? Barbaric habits and such. I think there's a difference meant to be."

Glinirnaeth says, "Tolkien depicts a contrast here: Aragon, in the Appendix to
the LOTR, accepts his mortality and realizes it is time to move on. Miriel, on
the other hand, did not accept her immortality. Which led to problems, since
Finwe suddenly was left alone, There were no precedents for this situation and
the way it was dealt with was that he was allowed to marry again, although
Elves usually marry for life, and being immortal, that means until the world
is remade. This led to the birth of Nolofinwe and Arafinwe, and later to the
split in the House of Finwe."

Glinirnaeth says, "Out of this situation, then, comes the Fall of the Noldor.
Letter 131 "The fall of the Elves comes about through the possessive attitude
of Feanor and his seven sons to these Gems. ... The sons of Feanor take a
terrible and blasphemous oath of enmity and vengeance against all or any, even
the gods, who dares to claim any part or right in the Silmarilli. They pervert
the greater part of their Kindred , who rebel against the Gods and depart from
paradise. The first fruit of their fall is war in paradise, the slaying of
Elves by Elves, and this and their evil oath dogs all their later heroism,
generating treacheries and undoing all victories.""

Sirithil nods. "That's exactly what I've been saying!"

Glinirnaeth says, "Now I'd like to look at this quote a bit more thorougly"

Curufin. says, "True, Armoril. The Tale of Tal-Elmar is told from the point of
view of some of these Men of Darkness... they are not exactly evil, but they
serve Sauron. Anyway, that's a sidetrack."

Glinirnaeth says, "Tolkien refers to the kinslaying here as the fruit of the
fall. That is, he does not see the Kinslaying as the Fall, but as a
consequence of it. The fall, for him, is the refusal to surrender the
Silmarili, and the oath to regain them come what may. As this is done, the die
is cast for the following events. They are a consequence of what happened
before, not independent acts."

Glinirnaeth says, "Second, he refers to the Kinslaying as "War in paradise".
And I'd like to stress that factor. He says war, not murder. We will look at
the precise events in a few minutes. Lastly, he points out the later heroism
of the sons of Feanor, though he says it was dogged by the events that
happened before."

Armoril says, "And I think we can say that Feanor and his sons, or the ones
that follow them, are not the only one who are possessive about the Silmarils
..."

Haelfdane says, "They tend to have that effect ;)"

Ardonion nods...plays directly to that influence, Armie.

Glinirnaeth says, "Before we go on, I'd like to throw in a quote by Tolkien on
his real world views, since it can illustrate why he considers the refusal of
the Silmarili to be the Fall, and illustrates his views on other events. He
speaks of the essence of a "fallen world", and thus, although the nature of
the fall of his fictional world and the christian worldview are different, it
is appliccable to both:"

Glinirnaeth says, "From letter 43: ""However, the essence of a a fallen world
is that the _best_ cannot be achieved by free enjoyment, or by what is called
'self-realization' (usually a nice name for self-indulgence, wholly inimical
to the realization of other selves); but by denial, by suffering."""

Sirithil nods.

Ardonion nods also...thinks he was right to think so, too.

Glinirnaeth says, "To do good, you have to suffer, you have to give something
up, even of yourself. The latter is precisely the reason that Feanor fields
why he does not wish to surrender the 

Silmaril, that part of himself is in them."

Glinirnaeth says, "Now, only a few pages after Feanor refuses to release the
Silmarili, he asks Olwe for the ships of the Teleri. Olwe replies "Therefore
we shall not give them, nor sell them for any league of friendship. For I say
to you, Feanor, son of Finwe, they are to us as are the gems of the Noldor:
The work of our hearts, whose like we shall not make again."""
Glinirnaeth says, "The Teleri refuse the ships with _precisely_ the same
argument that Feanor used to hand over the Silmarili. Like Feanor "defines"
his existence through the Silmarili, they "define" their existence through
those ships."

Armoril braces for spam ..

Sirithil says, "Holy crap, that's very true."

Glinirnaeth says, "now Feanor is in a dillema: He sees the ships as the only
way to get a sizeable number of people across the sea. He has sworn an oath to
remove all obstacles in his way to the Silmarils. And while some may think an
oath is just words, we are talking here about an archaic society. An oath is
similar to today's legally binding contracts. To illustrate that Tolkien very
much thinks so in his worldview, let me point out the example of the
"Oathbreakers" in the Lord of the Rings: For breaking their oath of support,
they are damned to millenia of restlessness as ghosts. It is only when they
fulfill their oath to the heir of the one they gave it to that they are
released. Feanor has taken an oath that "none shall take and none shall
break". He has removed himself from the realm of personal preference, and is
now in the realm of duty to his oath. He has removed himself from the
christian realm of self-sacrifice and is now in the old norse realm of
sacrifice of others for your duty."

Sirithil says, "He's in a catch-22... he's basically forced himself into a
Kinslaying."

Sirithil says, "It's the only card he has to play."

Armoril says, "Or to try to take the ships at least."

Sirithil says, "Which the Teleri won't give. He has to go through them to get
to the ships."

Glinirnaeth says, "Well, not at first. He first goes for the ships: "When he
judged that his strength was enough, he went to the Haven of the Swans and
began to man the ships that were anchored them and to take them away by force.
But the Teleri withstood him and cast many of the Noldor into the sea. Then
swords were drawn, and a bitter fight was fought upon the ships, and about the
lamplit quays and piers of the Haven, and even upon the great arch of its
gate. Thrice the people of Feanor were driven back, and many were slain upon
either side, but the vanguard of the Noldor were succored by Fingon with the
foremost of the host of Fingolfin, who, coming up, found a battle joined and
their own kin falling, and rushed in before they knew rightly the cause of the
quarrel; some thought indeed that the Teleri had sought to waylay the march of
the Noldor at the bidding of the Valar."

Sirithil nods.

Haelfdane says, "Not nice, throwing armored people into the sea :)"

Sirithil cackles.

Ardonion heys, some Noldor also were killed then. This char's wife, for one.
Glinirnaeth says, "Let's look at this closely again: Feanor and his folk go to
the ships and start to man them, basically steal them. But the Teleri "cast
many of the Noldor into the sea". What does it mean? Just like the Noldor were
willing to fight to get the Silmarili back, the Teleri are willing to fight to
keep their ships. It is the Teleri who actually make the first move to
personal violence. And they even manage to push Feanor back three times. If
not for the arrival of Fingon, the Teleri could have actually won. And Fingon
"found his own kin falling" and thought the Teleri had waylayed them. Surely
he wouldn't have thought so if what he saw was peaceful Teleri being butchered
by Noldor?"

Armoril says, "Logically, no."

Sirithil says, "Exactly."

Armoril says, "But there also is some inconsistency to this ..."

Sirithil says, "From Fingon's viewpoint, it would have appeared that the
Teleri had attacked or ambushed the Noldor."

Haelfdane also notes, that the trouble the Noldor had defeating teh Teleri is
interesting, considering their advantages, their weapons armor etc. A large
part of archaic warefare (and any warefare) is morale...It does not appear teh
Noldors' hearts were fully in it.

Sirithil says, "Very true."

Glinirnaeth says, "Let us compare what I said before on sacrifice with other
parts of Tolkien's works. In Nevrast, Ulmo tells Turgon: "But love not too
well the work of thy hands, and the devices of thy hear; and remember that the
true hope of the Noldor lieth in the West and cometh from the Sea." Of course,
he refers to Gondolin. But when that time comes, Turgon is unable to give up
the city. He, too, has begun to define himself through his creation. The
consequence, once again, is that his people get butchered."

Armoril says, "That was my point, Haelf."

Sirithil says, "And Thingol, with the Silmaril... he wouldn't give it up, and
he got himself killed. Then Dior regained it, and wouldn't give it up, and
Doriath was sacked."

Glinirnaeth says, "Every time, someone in the Silmarilion grows so enamoured
to the work of their own hands that they are unable to sacrifice it, the
consequences are dire. Compare that on the other hand to Frodo, in the Gray
Havens ""I tried to save the Shire, and it has been saved, but not for me. It
must often be so, Sam, when things are in danger:some one has to give them up,
lose them, so that others may keep them.""

Ardonion nods..creation is for Elu alone. No one else has the perspective and
complete love to do more than create selfishness and hate. IMHO, of course.

Glinirnaeth says, "You mean Eru, not Elu"

Armoril says, "Seems like we have a major notion at our hands. :)"

Haelfdane hmms, "Well, keep in mind, the Valar and elves were capable of
producing a lot of beauty and healing, it wasn't the act, it was the motives
and resulting attachment or lack ther-off to objects

Sirithil says, "The goodness lies not in creation, but being able to give of
oneself and share those creations with everyone else."

Haelfdane nods to Sirithil

Sirithil says, "Once you fall into selfishness and greed, you doom yourself."

Curufin. says, "I'm not so sure about that, Ardonion. Tolkien had a strong
notion that 'sub-creation' (such as writing stories) was imitating the
Creator, and as such a high form of praise and fulfillment. Melkor yearned to
create, yes, but Aule also."

Haelfdane says, "Which is, if we have any theologins here, the idea of the
creation of Man in the Christian story of Creation"

Ardonion nods to Haelf. Exactly from whence my thoughts come, however
misspelled. ;)

Curufin. nods.

Glinirnaeth says, "Time and time again, Tolkien brings up that point, so that
I think it is safe to assume it was very important for him. So, returning to
his quote on the real world: "or by what is called 'self-realization' (usually
a nice name for self-indulgence, wholly inimical to the realization of other
selves);" what should have been done? Well, the fact that neither the
Silmarili, nor the ships, could have been recreated, means that one self is
maybe lost, but that does not mean that another one might not be realized.
While they could not create new Silmarili, or new white ships, that does not
necessarily mean that they could not have created something potentially even
greater, while their earlier creations serve a greater good."

Sirithil nods.

Armoril says, "Or ... not being attached to them too much serves a greater
good ..."

Sirithil says, "Very true. Had Feanor shared of the Silmarilli, and the Teleri
of the ships, they could have potentially reached even greater heights. That's
basically what you're saying, right?""

Glinirnaeth nods

Haelfdane ponders a mating of special ships and Silmarili..wow...that combo
downed the strongest of Melkor's creations..heh ;)

Armoril chuckles. :)

Haelfdane begins to wonder if that's a coincidance now ;)

Armoril says, "Maybe not."

Ardonion hmms...wonders if perhaps the obsession with gems and ships meant
that the Noldor and Teleri now sat on their hands, now looking into the past
rather than toward any future?

Haelfdane says, "No doubt, just like Turgon and Thingol"

Ardonion says, "So, one could conclude that settling for how things are is the
beginning of death, whether or not one exists?"

Glinirnaeth says, "now looking at what happens further, the Noldor go
northward, through rough terrain, which was one of the reasons they wanted the
ships to begin with. Middle-Earth is closer to the north, but they did not
want to have their wives and children suffer the hardships of land travel in
that area. But Uinen had wept for the slain mariners, and the ensuing rough
sea had swallowed many of the ships, so that they had a serious shortage of
ships."

Sirithil says, "Sounds like it makes sense."

Sirithil nods to Glin.

Glinirnaeth says, "Well, the Elves always had a problem with "change" as a
concept. Comes with immortality, I guess. To avoid change was one of the chief
reasons to create the rings of power. But back to topic"

Armoril says, "I believe Tolkien himself didn't like the way the world was
changing, becoming filled with novel technology."

Glinirnaeth says, "I'd like to point out as a brief aside the prophecy of the
north. Feanor stays true to his duty and defies the gods. Even though he
accepts he might not succeed, he is basically in a "Ragnarok-mood". Fight the
fight, even if you can't win."

Sirithil says, "Very true."

Ardonion says, "If Feanor does not believe the Valar told the whole truth
about the fate or purpose of the Elves, then perhaps he also does not really
believe the Doom will fall upon them either. A glimmer of hope and no more,
perhaps, but not simply fatalism, either."

Curufin. says, "Doesn't Manwe say something to the effect that, though they
will fail, the tale of their deeds will be glorious... what's the quote? It's
something good."

Armoril says, "Doesn't going against the one he knows to be the mightiest of
them state that he questions the supremacy of their sayings? :)"

Ardonion says, "Besides, Morgoth worked among the Noldor. Any of us having
Valinorean chars will have worked with him at some point. So, that belief
would be widespread among us Feans"

Armoril nods.

Haelfdane says, "I don't think there's any doubt that the Noldor would be
sceptical of Valar ominscience and omnipotence, however..they probably
realized that the Doom was likely powerful in the same way their Oath was"

Ardonion nods..very good point, Haelf.

Armoril says, "That's true, Haelf."

Armoril says, "But they didn't take their fates for granted. :)"

Glinirnaeth says, "However, he has a problem: There are too few ships left to
get everyone over in one trip. And if there's more than one trip, there will
be quarrel as to who goes first. He thinks about alternatives. He explicitly
considers the Helcaraxe, but considers it impassable. Now we have to look as
an aside at the names used in Beleriand a bit: Fingolfin's original name was
Nolofinwe, or "Wise Finwe" The name Fingolfin is basically a sindarinized
contraction from Finwe Nolofinwe. In this, the first "Finwe" is seen as a
title of succession to Finwe as the chief leader of the Noldor. According to
Tolkien's notes published in the history of Middle-Earth, this already
happened during the trek northward. Now this is a bit at odds with Fingolfin
promising "Thou shalt lead and I will follow." and I am not sure what evidence
there is as to which version, or perhaps if both, are preferred. In any way,
however, Feanor always had quarrels with Fingolfin. Considering himself the
eldest, and Finwe considering himself "unkinged" upon Feanor's banishment, he
surely saw himself as the rightful leader, though many of the Noldor might
have preferred Fingolfin."

Armoril says, "Or perhaps I should've said 'so'."

Glinirnaeth says, "So, Feanor might have be afraid of quarrels regarding
leadership, and unsure about Fingolfin's reliability and faithfulness. As
such, he decided to simply head over with the ships with his own kin, and
leave Fingolfin where he is, perhaps to avoid morale to be undermined by such
issue."

Ardonion is reading that last from Glin very carefully.

Sirithil says, "Thanks."

Glinirnaeth says, "He did not, as some think, intend to force Fingolfin onto
the Helcaraxe. Considering that impassable, he explicitly expected Fingolfin
to head back to the Valar: "Then Feanor laughed as one _fey_ and cried "None
and none! What I have left behind I count now no loss, needless baggage on the
road it has proved. Let those that curse my name curse me still, and whine
their way back to the cages of the Valar." Also note that he was referred to
as "one fey". He felt his doom upon him. Basically, by that time, he was a
machine set on self-destruct. He had already abandoned the road of free will a
long time ago, and now there was nothing left of it anymore. He was purely
driven by instinct and oath."

Glinirnaeth hopes to wrap this up within the hour.

Haelfdane notes, that though that series of events, and Feanor's treatment of
Finwe's other sons, that efforts were made on both sides to heal that gap, at
the very least by Maedhros and Fingon..and considering their later
cooperation, probably succeeded, at least on the surface..but it does help to
explain the initial events during the march and the initial happenings in
Beleriand after the arrival of the Noldor

Sirithil nods. "I agree... actually, of all of Feanor's sons, Maedhros was the
one I liked best. I had a lot of respect for him."

Haelfdane chuckles, "Who wouldn't? ;)

Curufin. says, "Surely, though, some of the sons--not Maedhros and
Maglor--committed 'evil' actions that were not simply motivated by the Oath?
If I'm jumping ahead, sorry, we can get back to it later."

Ardonion grins and nods..that's why I work for you, Curu. ;)

Haelfdane hehs

Armoril says, "Perhaps not that obviously motivated, Curu."

Sirithil nods to Curufin. Celegorn and... that other guy, most notably.

Glinirnaeth says, "In any way, we end up with the Noldor back in Middle-Earth,
as was originally Eru's intent. Though through hardships and sad events, Eru's
plan has found a way. I quoted Tolkien earlier speaking of the heroism of the
sons of Feanor. To this end, let me point out that Maedhros deliberately chose
to settle in the east, in a less naturally protected area of the front against
Angband. Whereas Hithlum and Dorthonion had mountains, the Gap later called of
Maglor was completely open. By this, he intended to accept a greater part of
the burden of the war, and also tried to keep the more rash of his brothers
away from where they could do too much harm. After Fingolfin's death, although
Fingon was seen as his successor by some (although it is said that Finrod then
started to call his father Arafinwe Finarfin, for similar reasons as
Nolofinwe->Fingolfin), most of the inter-realms coordination that happened was
later encouraged by Maedhros, leading to the unfortunately unsuccessful Union
of Maedhros."

Curufin. says, "Caranthir, yes. But especially Curufin. ;>"

Haelfdane hehs, "Actually Siri..not Celegorm..

Curufin. says, "Celegorm I'd say was one of the better ones. He was motivated
by the oath and manipulated by Curufin, to be sure. But, sorry, we're a little
off track."

Haelfdane nods to Curu

Sirithil nods at the mention of the Union. "That, I think is one of my biggest
beefs with Thingol, in fact. Even Gondolin managed to contribute troops, but
not Thingol. Although, again, I'm going off on a tangent...

Haelfdane says, "And Caranthir was just arrogant and completely lacking in
tact..not sure if that qualifies as evil..just foolish ;)"

Armoril says, "But that makes him the more an intresting character. :)"

Haelfdane says, "Interesting yes, not cuddly and lovable though ;)"

Armoril says, "Guess not. :)"

Haelfdane nods to Glin, btw, "Important points there..

Curufin. says, "Caranthir didn't really do anything 'evil', he was just hasty
and harsh-tongued. Managed to tick off folks. Curufin is the only one that the
word 'evil' is actually applied to... He's interesting because on the one hand
he's said to be the exact image in appearance and behavior of Feanor his
father, but on the other hand he's quiet, plotting and scheming, things you
don't normally associate with Feanori."

Curufin. says, "With Feanor, that is."

Haelfdane says, "Indeed"

Glinirnaeth says, "Well, while there were surely events not _directly_ related
to the oath, the oath is still the primary driving force. While it might not
be always running at the surface, it is always there. But it should be pointed
out that even so, the Feanorians try to avoid further problems for their own
kin."

Glinirnaeth says, "Meaning the elves as a whole. Though Nargothrond is a bit
of a tricky issue 
there."

Haelfdane says, "Well..again, in Nargothrond..you have Curufin..and Celegorm
apart from the moderating influence of Maedhros..so it's a unique situation"

Glinirnaeth says, "Precisely what I wanted to say :)"

Haelfdane oopses and hushs, "My bad ;)

Curufin. says, "Dang that Curufin fellow!"

Sirithil simply raises an eyebrow at Curufin damning himself. ^_^

Arndis just sits and blinks.

Glinirnaeth says, "But if we look at Doriath, the sons sent letters asking for
the Silmaril. They did not get a reply. So they went to get it. Now instead of
awaiting them in Menegroth, and perhaps fortifying his position there to force
negotiations, Dior met them out in the open. The result was another slaughter
with many dead on both sides."

Sirithil sneers derisively. "Dior was an idiot."

Haelfdane tsks at Sirithil

Curufin. says, "Let's try to make a little more intelligent comments than
that, Sirithil. ;>"

Sirithil says, "Sorry. Just the impression I got of him when reading the book,
is all."

Sirithil just doesn't see how the Silmaril is worth more than the entire
nation.

Haelfdane says, "Well, Dior probably would have known little of the Feanorians
personally...he'd have been raised with heresay and Thingol's opinions..it's
hard to fault him /too/ much..."

Ardonion hmms..well, Dior was the punctuation on the whole effort of the Elves
to maintain and return to the pristine past. That he fails is almost a given,
and that he shouldn't even have tried is patent, but only in retrospect.

Sirithil nods. "True, true."

Haelfdane says, "But back to Glin's point..the facts of the sacking are
apprapo (sp?) to the situation at large.."

Glinirnaeth says, "But he could have tried differently, in any way. Menegroth
could have been a pretty much impenetrable fortress. If you have something
like that and go out into the open, you harm your own chances in a way similar
to Beorhtnoth at the battle of Maldon."

Ardonion wonders what oath prompts Dior to take such a chance, however?

Haelfdane says, "Unless of course your greatest strength is in horsemen, and
numbers are relatively equivilant..however..the reverse was the case..so.."

Glinirnaeth says, "But that, in any way, is not even my point. Rather, in
Doriath and in the Havens, the Feanorians sent letters to ask to be freely
given, but were rebuffed. In the latter case, this is even more significant,
since there are survivors from Doriath there, who pretty much know the
consequences of such actions. Not only did they ignore that factor, they also
didn't give the Silmaril to Earendil to take out of reach. Rather, they wanted
to prosper in its light, attributing some of their wellbeing to the influence
of the Silmaril, and thus, once again, defining their happiness through their
possession. At the same time, Earendil cannot find Valinor. As such Tolkien
writes in letter 131: "His wife Elwing descends from Luthien and still
possesses the Silmaril. But the curse still works, and Earendil's home is
destroyed by the sons of Feanor. But this provides the solution: Elwing
casting herself into the Seas to save the Jewel comes to Earendil, and with
the power of the great Gem they pass at last to Valinor, and accomplish their
errand.""

Glinirnaeth says, "once more, it is through evil actions that good is
achieved. Just like the first kinslaying led the elves back to middle-earth,
the third leads to Earendil finding his way to Valinor."

Glinirnaeth says, "And although Tolkien notes that some of the Feanorians
deserted and switched sides, he only mentions them as an aside, and does not
glorify them as heroes. While they are doing the right thing from a 20th/21st
century armchair view, they are acting disobedient and neglect their duties.
And Tolkien, fully well knowing that obedience can be abused by people with
ill intent, still sees obedience as a virtue."

Sirithil nods sagely.

Glinirnaeth says, "He goes as far as to praising obedience as a virtue in
German soldiers during WWII, even though on that day or the next, they could
have killed him, or his sons fighting them. He doesn't condemn them for
following their orders, but rather their leaders, for giving them."

Sirithil says, "He makes a good point there."

Haelfdane would argue that the ones that stayed the course were the ones
making the much harder choice..if they'd felt abandoning teh oath was the
right thing to do, it would have been much easier than continuing on a path
that led not only to the killing of those who should be allies, but leading to
the loss of their leaders and comrades and close kin...I would imagine that
there was a lot of grief on the Feanorian side, especially by the time of
Sirion..

Haelfdane also notes Glin makes that point more objectively than he does.. ;)

Armoril wonders how accurately this particular issue can actually be analyzed
... :)

Haelfdane says, "Well, we can't tell exactly what they were thinking in many
cases, but I think given teh frames of reference Glinirnaeth is working
from..we can get a good idea"

Armoril says, "I'd say that's only one possible option, though it is
prominent. :)"

Glinirnaeth says, "To sum up what you can ordinarily expect from Feanorians:
To follow the oath is not a matter of choice for us. It is not an issue
whether we agree or disagree with it. We have taken it, or sworn allegiance to
someone who has, and as such, whether we like it or not, we have to pursue it.
However, all the more if we do not like it, getting it over with is our chief
priority, because that is the only way that will set us free to act as we
choose to again. Expect a strong sense of duty, and of loyalty. If you attack
the lord of a Feanorian, be it with arms or with words, no matter who you are,
expect the Feanorian stand up for his lord. Even if he would agree with you,
he would defy you to stand down. And that means no matter who you are, whether
serf or High King. If Feanor can stand up and defy the Valar, how could any of
his followers do anything less than stand up and defy any of his kin who
insult his lord? In general, as I tried to point out, assume a mixture out of
the viking/norse spirit, and of course the sophistication of the Noldor, which
might lead to something resembling partly the wild Norse, partly ancient
Sparta. Our chief goal is to fulfill the oath. There's enough time for leisure
later. There's no reason to have fun and be happy until Finwe is avenged...
etc etc."

Glinirnaeth says, "Assume a strong indomitable spirit, NOT tempered by
mercifulness and self-sacrifice a la Fingolfin and Finrod. If the latter two
are comparable to Alfred the Great, the Anglo-Saxon king who held the Norse at
bay, then Feanor and his sons compare to Erik Bloodaxe, viking ruler of
Jorvik, today York. Both are "english" rulers of Germanic origin, but with
very different premises, some of which are only obvious in direct comparison."

Ardonion says, "Questions from nonFeans?"

Glinirnaeth says, "At the end of the Silmarillion, Tolkien grasps a last
occasion to illustrate such duality, this time between two sond of Feanor
himself"

Glinirnaeth says, "Having captured the last two Silmarils, Maedhros and Maglor
are technically free to do as they please. Yet both see that they cannot live
with the Silmaril, it burns them. Maedhros decides that if he cannot live with
it, he still shall keep it, and casts himself into a fiery chasm. Yet Maglor,
on the other hand, casts his Silmaril into the Sea, and wanders on. Of all the
people who ever sought a Silmaril for themselves (Beren only seeking it for
Thingol), he is the only one to give it away."

Glinirnaeth says, "And with that, let me close my part and apologize for the
length :) I am open for discussion now, if you don't have enough already :)"

Haelfdane says, "Well, was Maedhros not giving it away as well? Only he seemed
to be trying to get rid of it permanently, along with himself"
Hologram of Sirithil smiles. "It was very informative." She files the
information away in her mind for the inevitable dealings with Feanorians that
will eventually happen.

Armoril says, "And oddly, Maglor seems to be the only one not seeking to
apologize after doing the right thing. :)"

Ardonion chuckles..illustrating the Christian notion that Hell is
self-created: Maglor also does not ever move to re-enter Valinor, nor seek
forgiveness, but walks the shores, sadly singing.

Ardonion applauds Glinir's research and presentation, btw.

Haelfdane says, "Maedhros must have felt a huge weight of responsibility to
settle the issue once and for all..and..perhaps it wasn't necesarily the right
way, but it seems he felt at that moment that the best way to deal with it..or
even, that he had no idea how to reconcile everything to himself, so he ended
it..as close as he could come to it"

Sirithil nods. "Interesting."

Sirithil nods. "A very well-prepared lesson."

Haelfdane nods to Ardonion, "Indeed...that was a lot of work...and very solid

Sirithil would give Glin about five cookies if this mush had them.

Curufin. also applauds.

Ardonion nods..very much helps me work with this char. I am generally weak on
Fean affairs, sadly. This presentation reminds me I am normally aligned with
Fean thinking IRL but side with the treehuggers ICly. Have to work to avoid
that here. ;)

Armoril says, "A great councel, all in all. I believe it had some issues for
everyone that had previously gone unperceived."
Aethelwulf has left.
