Barad Eithel -- Outer Courtyard

High walls and lofty towers cast their long shadows down into the courtyard
below. Troops often train here, learning the skills which will protect them
against an implaccable foe always more numerous than they. At times, the
whole of the fortress gathers here to hear the words of their commanders or
of the High King himself...or to muster for battle.

Ringing the courtyard are the grainaries, armouries, smithies, stables, and
other buildings which support and provide for the fortress in peace and in
war.

Cast:

Fingalad, Chieftan, Mithrim Army

Fingon The Valiant, Prince of Mithrim

Hador Lorindol

Fingolfin Nolofinwe, High King of the Noldor

Elagil of Dor-Lomin

Gundor second son of Hador

Lindis, Healer of Dor-Lomin

Curundil of Nargothrond, Messenger of Finrod

Though he knows it to be late morning, the Noldo would not guess it by the
sky above him. Anar is hardly to be seen at this hour, for the burning reek
of the surrounding lands obscures all but a little of the glory of the Sun.
The foul odor of smoke now permeates every breath, and coughing may be heard
around the fortress as much as anything else. As Fingalad comes down from
the ramparts to the courtyard, his throat and eyes burn from the smoke and
the thirst caused by the relative lack of fresh water. His clothes and face
smeared and stained with the foul blackness of soot, he looks up into the
reek, hoping that some fair wind of Manwe may speed this smoke and soot
away, yet still the burning continues. His eyes burn and well up, causing
great pain and irritation. Here and there may be seen many kinsmen hastening
to their duties, as well as might be performed in the choking air. He
remembers how for granted he took the sweetness of a simple breath upon the
plains, and yearns, briefly, for the cool, fresh air of the highlands of
Hithlum.

Out from the healers, steps Fingon. Though attempting to look regal and
proud as he always does, it is obvious that his recent brush with the 'fires
of Morgoth' has shaken him. Many of his soldiers are already missing and
those he was able to bring in have not fared well thus far. He coughs
occasionally, trying without success to supress it. Taking a few strides
into the open area of the courtyard, he surveys the scene around him. His
raven dark hair lies tousled and dark patches are seen beneath his eyes.
Yet, within those eyes burns an anger...an anger that will not be
assuaged...

The lord of Dor-Lomin appears from his tent, attended by a guard of his
people. Hador is girded for war, the famous dragon helm cradled under his
right arm. The deep eyes of the lord flash, occasionally glancing worriedly
to the north and the peculiar red glow that can oft be seen, or perhaps it
is only a memory.

And from the tower comes another mail-clad figure, his helm already upon his
head, the blue plume wavering in the strange, hot breeze. His shield he
bears with him, bearing the emblem of his house, for it is Fingolfin indeed.
Ringil is girt at his side, and in his free hand he carries a long spear. In
his eyes a fire burns, no less bright than the flames of earlier, and he
gazes keenly at thorse already gathered in the courtyard. Pausing as he sees
Hador and sees his son, he whispers something to a page, who runs off
towards the stable , while Fingolfin goes still and waits.

Seeing Prince Fingon and Aran Fingolfin emerge into the confines of the
courtyard, the Shieldman approaches the Prince and says, noticing his burns,
"M'lord.....what news from outside the fortress? For we have heard but
rumors, and though we have indeed seen the fires both north and east, the
reek obscures much.....is all....lost upon the plains, m'lord?" Coughing
again, Fingalad looks up again, hoping to catch some patch of blue in the
hateful sky.

Out of the high tower of Fingolfin, Elagil walks off, arrayed for war, a
great helm of similar design as Hador's under his arm. Slowly, he climbs
down the flight of step, the metallic spurs of his boots ringing again teh
cold stone rythmically. Before him, in the courtyard, the host of Dor-Lomin
is assembling under the watchfull eye of their lord, waiting not Gundor, the
adan heads toward the high blue tent where the son of Hathol is. Pale eyes
studies the yet tall and vigorous silhouette of Hador and a smile brushes
the lips of the young man, a gleam of pride comes into his glance and he
bows "Lord" and his glance turns from him toward the host gathered "Your son
is coming, we had some meeting with the king, we will leave in one hour, ere
noon."

A pained expression crosses Fingon's features as he listens to the
Shieldman. He looks toward the north and east as if seeing through the
walls. "From what little we could see...it...it appears that the entire
Ard-Galen is afire. I have never seen such devastation..." His hand strays
over to his shoulder and he absentmindedly fingers the hilts of his sword as
he has done on many occasion when considering a battle to come. "Darkness
has come, mellon, and we *will* fight to bring back the light..."

Walking from the camp of the men of Dor-lomin, a tall man comes. A high helm
he wears and beneath it long golden hair falls. Bright mail shines as the
figure walks and a long cloak of midnight blue covers him. In his wake a
handful o men follo all are clad in similar garb yet they all seem
different, for this is Gundor Hador's younger son. As they walk into the
open court yard several young lads of Marachian kin move to the stables,
presumably fetching the steed of the warriors.

"Elagil. I hope you fare as well as possible under this cursed ash and
smoke." Hador's voice is rough with grief and annoyance over such
destruction. "Very well. Ere noon."

"Aye lord" Elagil replies quietly, surveying the approach of Gundor and his
retainers. "We are lucky to be high in the mountains, it must be hellish
down in the valleys? Preay the wind, even chill wind rises and blows all
this stench out" he sighs and turns his clear glance to the Golden Headed.
"It let us barely two hours before noon, shall I bring your steed ?"

Shaking his head in mute disbelief, Fingalad has just had his worst fears
confirmed by Prince Fingon, and knows that many of his friends and kinsmen
have already gone to Mandos. Taking heart in the iron will of the Prince,
the Shieldman says, "Aye, m'lord......the light shall return indeed!"
Pausing a moment, he inquires, "M'lord.....is our plan to venture forth and
strike at the enemy upon the plains, as surely he must be there?" Gripping
tightly the pommel of his sword, his eyes burn with the desire for redress
and vengeance.

There is a loud whinny, as a page comes from the stable leading Rochallor,
the great war-horse of the elvenking. Yet seeing his master the horse pulls
free of the groom's hold, and trots swiftly to Fingolfin's side, stamping
eagerly. Fingolfin smiles despite himself, and raises a gloved hand to pat
the great, arched neck. "Soon, my friend, we ride soon," he murmurs, hanging
his shield from the saddle. And then he turns, and calls out, "Fingon!
Hador! Is all ready?"

Hador. nods finally after some consideration, "Yes, bring forth my horse.
For indeed we will ride forth soon." At the shout of Fingolfin Hador calls
out across the compound, "Yes my lord. The people of Dor-Lomin stand ready!"

A measure of pride is seen within Fingon's eyes as he turns to his father.
"Yes, father. All is ready... yet, I would hope to give honor were honor is
due before we set out..." A glance in the direction of Fingalad accompanies
this last comment. "Shieldman, we have need..." He begins to move in
Fingalad's direction. Drawing close to him, his hand reaches out to rest on
the Shieldman's shoulder. "We have lost many already in this war...among
those, Gil-Thalion is missing..." his eyes gloss over for a moment as he
thinks back on some memory, "Would that he were here now, for I have need of
leaders. I would see the both of you stand together, and lead our people
alongside my father and I. But alas, you must take that responsibility
alone. Though I wish this would have scome under more appropriate
circumstances....kneel, Fingalad, Shieldman of Mithrim..." Witht that he
draws his great blade from his baldric...

As his horse is brought and the horses of his knights, the young lord pats
its side and checks its saddling. His eyes scan around the court and he
notes many faces, his eyes flash at a few and gleam more so at some voices
that ring over the place. he montions to his gaurd to follow him, there
horses are led through many towards the assembling van of Dor-lomin and his
Father.

At the king call and Hador reply, Elagil nods hastily and asks "Shall we
hold the rear guard as usual lord ?" he asks, about to go to the stables
where one of the younger marachian, already lead out the lord of Dor-Lomin
steed. "Here lad" he smiles and takes the rein of the great war horse to
Hador himself.

Kneeling as commanded before the the great Prince, Fingalad feels suddenly
the sting of loss as his close friend Gil-Thalion has been numbered among
the missing. As he kneels, he remembers only his kinsman Thalion, and his
great valor, and the thought that he may be found. He kneels without joy,
thinking now only of comrades dead and lost, and feels lost for the moment
without his trusted kinsman.

Hador. nods in thanks to Elagil, and with only slightly slowed motions of
age he swings himself up onto the charger. He claps the Dragon Helm firmly
over the golden hair for which he is renowned. "We will hold this fortress
from the hosts of the enemy for as long as we are able, as we agreed to do."
he seems reluctant, as though he would much rather be at the front lines. "I
pray that it will not become a rearguard action."

Elagil nods quickly to Hador and goes himself to his horse, ready along
those in the company of Gundor. Slowly, reluctantly it would seem for as he
moves to his horse, brisk and shining clean, the greatsword sheathed near
the pommel of the saddle, his shield hanging there; often does he looks
toward the healers house nearby.

Hearing his son's words, Fingolfin nods slowly, his smiles growing slightly,
proud and yet sad at the same time. "Honour indeed where it is due," he
says, stepping closer to his son and the shieldman. "Long have you served
us, Fingalad, and faithfully." He falls silent, motioning his son to
proceed.

Fingon touches Fingalad lightly upon the shoulder with the flat of the
blade. "For the honor with which you have served Mithrim...For the honor in
which you have served your King...For your great deeds of valor, past,
present and those to come, you will be a shieldman no longer...arise,
Cheiftain, Fingalad," with those emotion filled words, Fingon lifts his
sword away a reaches out to take Fingalad's hand...

Having bundled the essential herbs and bandages of her craft into a
haversack, Lindis leaves the Hall of Healers. Her sorrow rests heavy within
her, but now is not the time for weeping. Entering the Courtyard, she
presents herself to the muster, moving unobtrusively to stand near Elagil,
among the Edain of Dor-lomin. The morning is so very bright, holding such
beauty that her sadness seems an affront somehow. Yet that has been the way
of Elves and Men in Beleriand, of the blood shed in clear water and dying
cries silencing birdsong. Lindis wonders how many died when the pristine
fields of Ard-Galen were turned black... Banishing such thoughts, the
Healess turns her mind to her duties.

Taking the hand of the Prince, Fingalad rises and says, "Thank you, m'lord."
No other words does he speak, for his feelings are a mix of emotions.
Thinking only of his comrades, no joy is shown, yet very grateful he is as
he says, "I shall continue to serve thee lord, and you Aran Fingolfin, as I
always have. I am humbled by this." He bows low to both the Aran and the
Prince.

The son of Hador sits atop his steed now and looks to the nearing officer,
he nods to Elagil, his face holds no mirth. The eyes of the young lord seem,
bright and keen, yet pained. The knights near their Lord mount and look to
Hador now as well as his son. Gundor now looks to his Father, "Greetings
M'Lord. So what is it to be Father, where would you have me ride." His face
holds sadness yet his voice rolls out haught as a smile sits apon his face,
yet it is hard brought about.

For a brief moment Fingolfin smiles, touched as well by the brief ceremony.
And then his horse neighs, and he shakes his head slowly. "Fingon, need you
time to instruct Fingalad in his new duties ere we ride? For I would that we
leave withing the half-hour at the latest; time is short now, for us even as
for the edain."

A light from nowhere lands on the features of Elagil, grim since the
morning. For a few seconds the war is forget and in all the darkness and
stench that fills the courtyard, he smiles. "Lindis, I am glad to see you, I
was fearing to not" he says removing his glove and lifting a few fingers
gently to her cheek. Watching her eyes and her sadness, he smiles more and
says "We are leaving now, we will give tehm battle soon and push them back
to their fiery holes. Do not fear, I swear you it will be fine". The voice
of Gundor draws him from her sight.

Fingon smiles warmly upon the newly promoted soldier, "You do not have time
now to be humble, mellon. We will ride together and..." just then his father
cuts in. Fingon listens, nodding agreement then continues, "We will ride
side by side and I will tell you of your duties." Turning his face back to
his father he responds, "I can be ready in only minutes...I am only in need
of my armor and we can ride." He begins then to stride off toward the
healers hall once again...

Curundil leads his horse closer at this point, having been listening from
the edge of the crowd. He is already dressed and packed for travel, if still
somewhat ill-accoutred for war. Somewhat hesitantly, he smiles and waves to
Fingalad, having not dared to intrude earlier.

Listening carefully to all the Prince has said, Fingalad says, "Lord I shall
fetch my steed and be ready in only a moment." Sprinting off for the
stables, he returns some brief moments later, riding his war-stallion.
Dismounting, he is arrayed for war, wearing his battle-armor and helm. His
shield is slung upon the side of the horse. His heart hammers with
anticipation of battle and the opportunity for vengeance....and at the
thought of hopefully finding lost kinsman.

Gundor looks about at his knights and all the men of his Father, so fair
they look apon such a fowl day. Fresh Dwarven mail many wear, free from to
many notches or dints. Yet his own armour is of fine crafting, but it is not
new a few places holds marks of which a tale could be told. A few of the
Marshals speak with Hador, for now Gundor remains removed from the talk. He
looks at Elagil yet sees he has important business, so the young Lord sits
and looks at the many many folk collected herein. His gaze is caught by the
high king and his son, a smile and a nod is sent to both, whether it is
marked or not.

Averting her eyes from the great host, Lindis lowers her voice and speaks to
Elagil. "My dear, the time is dark, but my fear is as nothing beside you. We
all knew that this day had to come." She looks away very briefly, to brush
away a single tear, hoping that he will not notice but knowing better. Her
gaze returns to him. "I wish that it had not been today. I wish that our
swords had held the Nameless at bay for a thousand more years; but that is
of no use. All that can be done now is to fly to the North, where you may
stem the tide of the dark for some small time, and where I may tend our
people's wounds, your wounds-" Lindis can no longer speak; she only closes
her eyes in grief.

Elagil catches the glance of Gundor as he turned briefly toward him and he
nods, the muscle along his jaw tightening. Indeed the tear on her cheek he
miss, even if so close but the sadness in her glance her reads and he sways
his head, hesitating. "We will, we will and few men will stay here in the
defense of the fortress, merely a quarter of our forces. I'd like you stay
with them; it's safe here" he purses his lips, pela in his glance, shyness
in his words.

The High King nods to his son, and then mounts his horse, swinging into the
saddle in one fluid motion despite the armor. "It is time," he says quietly,
looking at his soldiers, and then at the men of Dor-Lomin. "Let us mount,
and the footmen follow after... we ride."

"No, no, my love, do not ask that of me," Lindis cries, her words tripping
over each other in their haste to be free. Her eyes seem to hold a fire that
does not rightly belong to them. "It is my duty to heal the weary and to
ease suffering. Healing is the only way in which I can help to fight the
Enemy, and it is the only way that I can aid you, my dearest Elagil! Do not
deny me this, I beg of you!"

Seeing that the moment is now or never, Curundil takes in a breath and leads
his steed right up to Fingolfin. He bows quickly, then speaks up, "Aran
Fingolfin?" he asks in a somewhat uncertain tone.

Elagil winces and turns to the leaving riders and men. The order of the king
runs among the chieftain and the men. Yet still not in saddle is Elagil,
considering still the word of the healess and he shakes his head. "Nay
Lindis, do not come. There is but death to where we go. You will help, for
we wont set a camp in the plains again like we did, this time it isnt a
skirmish we'll have or a band fo orc, but a prolly a large army going
against us. It's too dangerous. You will help better here, wounded will be
took back here." He sighs and flutters his eyes "Lindis, it's becasue I love
you I ask you this, do not come, please."

Fingolfin, hearing his name called, turns in the saddle to stare at the
courier from Nargothrond. "Curundil!' he says, his voice deep and rich, yet
tinged withboth sorrow and anger. "I am in haste, Curundil. Say this to your
lord and king: Fingolfin has need of you, for the storm we both feared is
upon us, and the Ard-Galen is no more. Ride to him, and ride swiftly!"

"It's because *I* love you that I ask this," Lindis echoes. She seems very
uncertain, almost lost. "I want to help you, Elagil. If my staying here will
be of greater aid to you, then I shall remain. Above all, you are my lord,
and I shall obey you if it comes to that." She shakes her head sadly. "Alas,
this goes ill with me. I would much rather be upon the battlefield, for I
deem that will be where I am needed most. And yet your will, dear one, not
mine."

Curundil nods quickly, and answers, "I will do so, m'lord, as swiftly as I
can! Look for me next amongst the forces of Nargothrond..and may Elbereth go
with you all." He swallows hard, trying his best to hide whatever other
emotions he may have behind a brave front. He looks at Fingolfin and all the
others about to leave for one long moment, then bites back any other words
he might have and mounts his own horse, riding forth with no further delay.

"Lindis" Elagil says, and he drops his hand to take her and lifts it
delicately. "It grieves me to leave you so in doubt and pain, but the
battlefields isnt a place for healers, when the battle will be over, and you
will know about, then it will be your turn to use your skill to help.
Anything can happen, and I wont be able to protect you and me if you come"
he sighs and closes his eyes, modestly lowering hislips to the back of her
hand. "But if I know you watch me, I am sure to be strong, you will protect
me more surely so."

Fingolfin nods grimly as the courier rides forth, and then he turns to his
herald. Taking from him a horn of graven silver hung upon a green ba;ldric,
Fingolfin puts it to his lips and blows, sending pure notes of music ringing
from the hills, echoing. "We ride!" he calls, his voice ringing even more
loud and clear than the horncall. "Aiya, Eldalie ar Ataratani, my people,
Elves and Men, the time has come! We ride! To me! We ride!"

"You are sure to be strong whether I watch you or not," Lindis says firmly,
"and I can see now that you will be more free if I do not go. Why should you
have to watch over your shoulder, trying to ensure that I am not hurt? No,
my dear, I cannot allow that - now go!" As the High King calls to the whole
war-host, Lindis touches Elagil's hand gently. Then she stands aside to
watch, as the host of Dor-lomin mount.

The Healess pauses for a time, and she is forced to ask herself if she will
ever see Elagil again. His valour is beyond doubt to her, and yet the evil
is so very great. BEfore the question is complete within her, the answer
comes: estel will sustain her. Hesitanting for only a moment, she turns back
to him, and says: "Until our eyes meet again, remember me." Reaching up, she
kisses him swiftly, and bids him farewell.

"But watch me still" Elagil smiles and as the voice of the king marks the
leaving, he heaves deeply. Squeezing her hand, he steps back slowly,
extending their arm till at least their entwined finger disentangle. "Like
the hazel and the goatleaf" he mutters staring at her and about to haul
himself in saddle, greets her kiss in the loop of his arm. "Of course I
will, but watch me" he whispers.

The eyes of Gundor now are kindled to flame he hears tyhe call of Fingolfin
and his knights look now to Gundor and to Hador for signal. "Lacho Calad,
Drego Morn !" The voice of the younger lord booms, "Ride men of Dor-lomin,
for your Lord and his." He reaigns his horse up and spurs it with a slight
tap of the heals he moves towards the gates.

"Until you vanish from my sight," Lindis smiles, returning his embrace. And
her eyes do follow him, as Elagil rallies to the call of Gundor, and the men
of Dor-lomin turn towards the North. Knowing that he can no longer hear her,
Lindis whispers, "The hazel and the goatleaf." Sadly, she asks herself if he
thinks that he can die alone.

The standard of Fingolfin is raised on high, and like a cresting waves the
knights of his household, his guard, and then the riders of his army mount
their steeds, and behind stand ready the footmen of the Eldar. He looks to
the edain, and a stern smile touches his lips. "No time now for words, no
time now for further counsel. War is upon us, let us ride to meet it with
honour, with courage, with the brave hearts I know are within you all!
Onward!" With that cry, Fingolfin urges Rochallor forwards. The great gate
swings open, and the elvenking rides to it, and to whatever waits beyond.

Elagil rides, late being Gundor and his knight, turning to see the blonde
healess of Hadorsford even as the host shouts the warcry of the North after
Gundor. Waving her a last time, no sunray catch his polished gauntlet of
mail. Sighing silently, he puts on the great helm of Nogrod on his head, the
figure of Valkane the balrog creeping over its crest and a bitter smile
crosses his hidden lips, at least none can see his face and barely his
glance, gleaming and moisten.
