Cast:

Fingolfin Nolofinwe, High King of Mithrim

Gundor second son of Hador

Elagil of Dor-Lomin

Location:

Barad Eithel, the High King's Council Chamber

Time:

Morning, Midwinter, after the flames have died down

Within the hall of council a handful of men and elves stand. All are
harnessed and ready for war. Most where bright gleaming mail one or two seem
to have ridden hard and stand up as they are in travel worn gear. None of
the men of Hador sit at tables and stand ready and waiting to hear what will
be said. Amid the few marshals and knights stands Gundor, his helm he holds
aneath his arms and his sword is girt at his side as always. Yet at the wall
where he stands a shield lies waiting, he truely is arrayed for war.

Straight and tall, the long white cape of Hador men hanging low behind him,
Elagil stands, a new helm smilar to the one his very lord Hador wear in
battle save for its crest under his arm. Eyes roaming over the worn
messengers, he says naugh and turns toward the other lords and the elf king.

Into the chamber strides Fingolfin, his mail glittering and uncovered save
for his tabard, on which is displayed the device of his House. Ringil is
girt at his side amd he carries with him his helm. For a moment he glances
at those assembled, and then nods, crossing the room and sitting at his
accustomed place at the table. He motions to the others, bidding them sit.
"War is upon us and we must take council," he says quietly, firmly. "For I
would that we send answer to this attack ere this day is over. Let us
begin."

The younger son of Hador nods firmly yet moves to say naught yet as he waits
for the high king to continue. The young Lord stands still yet there seems
to be a tension as he stands thus and there is for he itches to get upon his
horse and seek out whatever.

Chairs are pulled and in a swish of cloak and tinkle of mail, the rows of
the edain retainers takes their seat, Elagil among them. Keeping his helm in
his lap, he nods and stares blankly at the king, eyeing the golden of his
own lords near.

"Haste is needed, I deem," says Fingolfin, glancing at the son of Hador with
a wry smile, "Yet there is still time to sit a moment..." He shakes his
head, and then lifts up an ancient scroll. "Fire has kept us blocked here in
our fortress," he begins, "and yet I do not think that Morgoth's hosts have
kept to theirs. He is not usually.... so obliging..." Fingolfin sighs and
unrolls the scroll, revealing a detailed map of the Ard-Galen and the
surrounding lands. "Sentries have already seen movement from afar, perhaps
here...." he points, "yet in this reek even we cannot tell."

Gundor. says, "Amidst these rivers of flame, I deem there are routes Aran
Fingolfin, is this not so?" His eyes look straight back at the high king,
"If we can leave this place, we must I think. Never should we let the filth
of the North march apon us. The men of Hador are here to stand with you Lord
and we can ride now. I fear not for our readiness for we are here, but what
of our allies east."

A low rumbles runs along the grave men of Dor-Lmoin and all nods the word of
their brave prince. Listenning the exchange between Fingolfin and Gundor,
Elagil turns curiously toward the worn riders and then bends toward the map,
tracing the path from angband to Dorthonion with his finger, up in air, he
sighs.

"Let the horses be prepared, then," says Fingolfin, "And those that march on
foot as well. Alas! But many of our horses ran free upon the plain; it is a
heavy blow..." He falls silent for a moment, not mentioning the soldiers
left as well upon the plain, but his eyes darken. "Still, we have a great
force..." And then he looks at the son of Hador, and he shakes his head.
"Our messages to them may scarce come before us.... and we will come to
their aid if we may."

The face of Gundor is still set firm, his jawline seems tense and his eyes
flit restlessly. "Well M'Lord as was promised my Fathers men are here for
you, I know he is harneesed and ready to ride also, yet he is among our folk
now readying all with some aids. Yet what number of us do you wish to ride
and how many of our men dod you wish upon your walls. Let us know this and
we can be readied in an hour perhaps to ride." He shoots a look at Elagil
and looks speaks now to him, "Would you say thus Elagil?"

"One hour, aye" replies Elagil, lifting his head toward the mighty assembly.
"We have not a lot of Riders, a quarter perhaps of all our host is mounted"
he adds as matter of fact and turns to Fingolfin, waiting his answer at the
light of what he and Gudnor said.

"Riders are of no use to us here at the fortress, not now," replies
Fingolfin after a moment's thought. "It is on the plains we will have need
of them." He pauses an instant, and then nods, perhaps to himself. "Let you
leave here somewhat less than a quarter of your forces, and I will do the
same. If you can be ready to go forth in an hour, then let it be so."

Gundor. nods and stands, "It shall be done M'Lord Fingolfin, if you will
excuse me and my aids I shall ready my men. Unless you wish to plan further?
Yet without more news I think action is all we can plan." He waits for the
High kings last men, as do his knights and Marshals who remain seated. "The
men of Dor-lomin shall be a goodly allie Aran Fingolfin, as you have been
good friends we will prove our worth. I shall see you on the fields if not
afore we ride."

No a single more words Elagil does add and he stands as well, checking his
sword by his side, a hand leant on ths pommel. His helm under his arm, he
bows and takes his leave in the steps of the other white cloaked men of his
kin.

"We go forth before noon," answers Fingolfin, his voice stern, and
countenance grim. "I will see you in the courtyard. That is all."
