The silence of the camp is broken as the occupants rise for the day, ducking
out of their tents and beginning the days work in the hazy, meandering,
early morning fashion. Curundil and Elsabet, early risers both, have been
talking for some time by the central fire as the ominous clouds still cover
the sky, sending a light rain of ash down all about.

Curundil has removed his cloak and placed it over a washing basket that sits
on the ground nearby. The result of this is that even though he has bathed
this morning, he's slowly reaccumulating the layer of ash that he was
sporting after his arrival the day before.

There is a rustle of cloth from one of the larger pavilions. Celvir steps
out backwards, pushing the tent flap absently to the side as he speaks to an
individual within. His polished voice is a bit more harried than usual and
his words tumble rapidly through the morning air. "...immediately. At least
ten riders must leave by nightfall. That should be enough to cover all parts
of the realm. The King is signing the scrolls, even as we speak. They should
be ready within the hour."

Elsabet reaches out a hand quickly for her cousin's elbow as she catches
sight of Celvir. She would not like to interrupt Celvir, certainly . .. but
he must be spoken to in order to clear up the matter of Curundil, and
whether he will ride north or not.

Curundil jumps slightly, though whether it's because of Elsabet's touch or
the sound of Celvir's voice is unclear. "Oh no," he breathes, "I thought
you'd said that he'd left the camp for the day already! He's probably still
really wroth with me."

"I thought he had!" Elsabet exclaims back, looking distressed at her
incorrect assumption. She glances about and adds in a low voice, "Perhaps it
would be best to wait until later to inform him of our decision."

There is the sound of quiet words from within the pavilion, then Celvir
speaks up once more. "Nay, do not take the time. It is more important that
the news be sent now. The King needs to speak with Cirdan ere he leaves. The
messengers cannot be delayed." He spins around and lets the tent flap fall
behind him as he crosses to the fire. He holds a half-dozen scrolls balanced
under one arm and a satchel with more scrolls is strapped over his shoulder.
He hurries in the direction of Finrod's pavilion, but stops short as he
notices Curundil and Elsabet by the fire. "Mae govannen," he says briefly.

"Mae govannen," Elsabet replies with surprising meekness, her eyes
flickering between Celvir and Curundil. She has a slightly shifty air about
her, an unusual look for the maid who is typically calm and at ease.

Curundil's eyes widen at Celvir's approach, but there is a determined air
about him as he gets to his feet to greet his father's cousin. "Mae
govannen, Celvir," he says simply.

Although Celvir is well practiced at masking his emotions, weariness shows
clearly in the darkness around his eyes and the slump of his shoulders.
"Curundil," he says quietly, "I need to speak with you." He glances at
Elsabet and adds, "Both of you. Have you a moment?"

Elsabet sobers quickly from the light-hearted manner she had with her cousin
just a few moments before. "Yes, we have," she replies for the both of them,
clasping her hands behind her back in a characteristic gesture.

Curundil glances over his shoulder at Elsabet, then simply nods in
agreement. Less well practiced than Celvir at masking his emotions, it's
clear that he's torn between defiance and, well, nervousness.

If he notices the youth's defiance, Celvir gives no sign. Instead he sinks
onto one of the makeshift seats around the firepit and lets the satchel
slide from his shoulder to the ground. "I have been thinking upon our words
of yestereve," he says slowly, drawing in a deep breath and looking at
Curundil. "I believe I owe you an apology. I was distraught over the news
from Ard-Galen and spoke without thought. It was a poor performance for a
king's advisor. You are correct that my duty to your father is discharged
once we return to Nargothrond."

Elsabet drops gently again into the seat she had just risen from, ash
falling off where it had settled on the crown of her head and shoulders as
she moves. She does not know the exact nature of the conversation that took
place between Celvir and Curundil yestereve, so keeps her silence.

Curundil's defiance evaporates like mist under the midday sun, to be
replaced by the other emotion within him. Worry. "Are you alright, Celvir?"
he asks anxiously, paying no mind to the words of apology, at least for the
moment. "You look as though you have not slept. Is there anything I can do
to help?" The words are out almost without thought, since there is obviously
at least one thing that Curundil would not be willing to do for his kinsman:
remain behind in Nargothrond.

"I have been busy," Celvir explains, dismissing the youth's concern over him
with a wave of his hand. "There is much to do with the ill news from the
north, and there are only a few of us here in Falas to assist the king." He
draws in a long breath and straightens his shoulders. "However, do not
mistake my previous apology for acquiescence." A trace of sternness creeps
back into Celvir's tone and his eyes glint in the firelight as he watches
Curundil. "I do not and cannot approve of your chosen course. But I thought
calm words and reason might prevail where a father's command would not. That
is why I wished to talk with you now." Glancing at Elsabet, he adds,
"Milady, I trust that you agree with me that Curundil is far too young to go
to open war against the enemy?"

Curundil's eyes widen at Celvir's words, and he shakes his head
imperceptibly at Elsabet, as if willing her to disagree with Celvir.

Caught between a rock and a hard place /again/, Elsabet drops her gaze to
the ground, looking fairly uncomfortable. "I agree that Curundil is too
young," she admits slowly. "But it is far better for him to ride north with
Aran Finrod than to escape our company later by deceit. You know well his
stubbornness, Celvir . . . neither reason nor command will sway him."

As quickly as it appeared, Celvir's stern tone fades into a tired sigh. "I
suppose you are correct," he says to Elsabet, then looks to Curundil once
more. "I understand why you would wish to go to war, lad. Who would not wish
to fight the enemy in defense of dear friends? But you know naught of
war...nor should you, at your age. It is not a glorious time of valor as the
songs of the Secondborn would make it. It is a terrible business. You were
not old enough to remember the kinslaying at Alqualonde. Finrod and I
arrived only at the end and did not participate, but the memory of what we
saw has haunted my dreams ever since." With a shudder he glances at Elsabet.
"Were you there, milady? Do you remember the kinslaying?"

"I was but young," Elsabet replies quietly. "But I remember. Of course, I
remember."

Curundil raises both hands palm up in the air and protests, "But it's not
other elves we're going to fight! I don't see how this is anything like what
happened at Alqualonde. And if it had been yrch who were doing the killing
at Alqualonde, you wouldn't have stayed behind in your homes letting it
happen, would you? You would have gone forth to help them...even if it meant
injury or death." He looks down at his feet for a moment, then launches back
into speech fervently, "I'm not going because I want to be a hero, Celvir. I
know I'm not. I know I'm inept, and foolish and inexperienced..but I have to
try. Because if I can make any difference at all for the better, I have to
be there."

"Curundil, you are too young!" Celvir says fervently. He starts to raise his
hand, but the scrolls in his lap threaten to roll off, so he grimaces in
annoyance and lowers his hand to hold them. "You have barely seen anything
ouside of Nargothrond. There is an entire world out there for you to
explore...perhaps even Valinor. You have so many years of joy and laughter
ahead of you. Do not throw them all away now! Let your elders face this
battle. There will be many more battles to come, I fear."

Elsabet leans forward to address Celvir, her voice low and urgent. "But what
will he do if he stays? I speak not because I want my cousin to go to war. I
speak because I desire for him to be at peace with his heart . .. and he
believes this is the right thing to do, so be it!" She pauses, taking a deep
breath and organizing her thoughts before continuing. "And I will go with
him, to watch over him ... I can apprentice with the healers. And I remain
firm in my conviction that it would be better for him to ride with Aran
Finrod than to sneak out and join later."

"But Elsabet," Celvir replies, lowering his voice to a whisper. "He has
never even seen Tirion. He should live to sail west one day in glory when
the rest of us have perished and the Valar have lifted their ban. His first
sight of Valinor should not be the dark Halls of Mandos."

Elsabet sighs, remembering what little she can of the city on the hill. "I
know," she finally replies, in that same whisper. "But I don't know what
else to do." She's gotten into her old habit of speaking in front of
Curundil as though he's not there ..ah well.

Curundil lowers his gaze, his lips pressed tightly together. "I have to do
what I think is right, Celvir," he says softly, "Otherwise all those years
won't be worth living. Don't they say that cowards die a thousand deaths?
The flames over Ard-Galen burn in my dreams, Celvir. I can't forget them and
lie trembling in Nargothrond! And like I said last night...I won't be
forsworn to Aran Fingolfin. I told him to look for me amongst the host of
Nargothrond. And I will be there." He pauses for a moment, then says, "I
want to deserve to see Tirion. And Valinor. I won't earn that right by being
an oathbreaker."

At the word "oathbreakers," Celvir's eyes narrow in pain. "Ever do our
people swear oaths in haste," he murmurs under his breath, "and then repent
at leisure." Raising his voice to a normal speaking tone he adds, "You are
not a coward simply because you do not fight, lad. We are followers of the
sons of Finarfin, not Feanor. We fight only because we must and when we
must. For my part, I would be happier than you can imagine if I never had to
look upon a sword again." He shakes his head. "The Valar forbade us from
fighting. Why do you think you would be more deserving of their realm
because you choose to fight?"

Curundil shuffles his feet as Celvir speaks, and says in a somewhat subdued
manner. "Well, I..uh..don't know."

Elsabet drops her eyes again, clasping her hands anxiously in her lap. Every
time she thinks she's made an intelligent decision, something comes up that
she didn't think about. Perhaps she should just learn to keep her mouth shut
... or at least learn to listen less to Curundil.

"At least think upon it, lad," Celvir says, relaxing slightly as he realizes
that his words have finally made an impression on his listeners. "It will
take us several days to reach Nargothrond, even if we ride in haste. It
should give you plenty of time to reflect upon your choices."

Curundil says, still in a very subdued voice, "But if we're followers of the
sons of Finarfin, shouldn't we be going up to help Princes Angrod and Aegnor
anyway? And..would you be as angry at me if I went up north just to serve in
whatever manner I could? Aran Finrod said that if I went, it would be as his
squire..doing what I know how to do anyway, not as some spearman in any
case."

Elsabet nods slowly, fiddling absently with the ring on her right hand, her
features set in deep thought. Decidedly something to think on.

"We are going to help Angrod and Aegnor," Celvir replies, unconsciously
glancing northward as he speaks. Despite his carefully neutral expression, a
trace of concern shows in his eyes, but he quickly masks it once more and
looks back at his companions. "I do not know what to think any longer. I
suppose if you are just a squire and do not fight..." He sighs and raises
his hands in the air in defeat. The scrolls in his lap start to roll off and
he grabs for them too late. They tumble to the ground and land in the dirt
by the fire. He closes his eyes tiredly and rubs his fingertips against his
forehead.

Elsabet reflexively slides off her seat, kneeling quickly in the dirt to
reach for the scrolls and return them to Celvir. "You /are/ tired," she
says, pitching her head to the side as she regards him. "I would that you
did not worry so . . . though with a charge like Curundil it would be
difficult not to," she adds wryly, shooting her cousin a quick, stern
glance, though she well remembers her role as co-conspiritor and soon drops
her head meekly.

Curundil bends to pick up the scrolls Celvir dropped, though Elsabet is
swifter off the mark this time. "I'm sorry," says Curundil rather meekly, "I
don't mean to be so much trouble. It just happens. Is there anything I can
do to help you today, Celvir? I did your laundry along with mine..though it
got all ashy right away again anyhow."

"Aye, my lady, I am weary," Celvir replies quietly, giving Elsabet a faint
smile as she brings back the scrolls. "And worried. For Curundil is not my
only charge. I had another given to me long before Curundil was born." He
drops his gaze to the scroll and fingers the edge of it idly as he
continues. "Finarfin and I grew up together in Valinor. When he harkened to
the words of Mandos and returned to Valinor, he asked me to watch over his
children while they were away and to see that no harm befell them. No oaths
did I swear -- Finarfin and I were both wary of oaths at that point -- but I
told him I would do my best. And now, I fear that..." He glances north again
and his words trail away. "No," he adds suddenly, raising his head once
more. "I will not despair until there is no possibility of hope." He turns
to Curundil and manages a real smile. "Nay, lad. You need not apologize. You
are young and any transgressions can be easily forgiven. And thank you for
the laundry. In the midst of my other duties, I had entirely forgotten that
one."

Cheered by Celvir's smile, Curundil replies with a grin, "I'll say you
forgot that, Celvir! You had absolutely no clean trousers left, you know
that? And what you were going to do for unde..." At that point, he glances
at Elsabet, reddens, and finishes rather lamely, "Well anyway, it's all
clean now."

Elsabet laughs at Curundil and rises, brushing ash off her skirts. She
surveys about the camp, feeling aimless and useless. It /would/ be good to
go with the army as a healer, if only to give her something more to keep her
busy. She glances in silence at Celvir and Curundil, wondering exactly who
'won' that argument. Celvir conceded, after a fashion ... but so did
Curundil. She thinks.

At Curundil's words, Celvir begins to chuckle softly. Then he begins to
laugh in earnest, lowering his head into his hand as he tries to catch his
breath. "Thank you, lad," he says finally. "And thank you for bringing
laughter back to this dark day. I did not think that anything could do so."

"Told you," Elsabet says with a grin and a sparkle in her eyes to Curundil.
"I believe Finrod only offered you the job for entertainment value . . .
you're better than wine for keeping spirits up, cousin."

Curundil grins, then begins to laugh along with Elsabet and Celvir. Shaking
his head, he goes over to pick up the laundry basket, and remarks sagely to
the other two, "Older people. I swear, you worry about things so much you
forget the basic necessities. And you think I can't take care of myself! I
think you should take a short nap, Celvir, before you fall face-first into
the fire. I'll wake you in less than an hour when I've fixed lunch and you
can go do important things after that."

"Wine," Celvir echoes Elsabet's statement in a wistful tone that makes the
word sound as if it were a much sought after destination rather than a
drink. "Wine would be nice, very nice." In response to Curundil's comment,
Celvir shakes his head. "Nay, I cannot rest. Not yet. There are a hundred
messages to write and meetings with Cirdan's folk. In fact, I should not
spend any further time in conversation, however soothing. Namarie." He rises
to his feet with the scroll in one hand and the strap of the satchel in the
other. As he starts to walk away, he turns to give Curundil one final look.
"Lady Elsabet speaks wisely, Curundil. You have a gift for raising spirits
that is rare, even among our folk. If you do decide to go north, please be
careful. We have many warriors to wield weapons, but too few who can bring
joy with words alone."
