Southern Plains of Lothlann

There is one sole dominating feature of these lands: plains... grasslands,
flat but filled with lively grass. There is naught to see for miles either
west, east or even to the bitter north from which a cold wind blows. To the
south, the plains stretch on and there you see distant highlands, and
perhaps in the distance, a gleaming citadel standing on a stately hill.

Maedhros himself, Son of Feanor and Lord of Himring, gazes out upon the
plain watchfully this night, with Noldor and Naugrim from both camps present
here. Strange sights have been reported to the north and east. There, in the
distance, the towers of Thangorodrim can be seen. Yet at its base, and as
far as the eye can see to east and west, a reddish glow lights the ground.

A young maiden arrives and approaches to her Lord, Prince Maedhros. She bows
deeply but when she rises her face and follows the gaze of the eldest Son of
Feanor, freezes in surprise and worry. The usually sweet and warm voice of
Istyarwen is sound now weird when she gasps and asks: "In the Name of the
One. . . What is that?". She seems now hypnotized by the red light which
illumines the north, the land of the Foe.

"I. . .I don't know. . . . Prince Maedhros, what - what's happening?"

Trembling, another elleth comes to join the pair, blinking at the eerie
crimson glow in the distance. . .Araphel, healer to Prince Maglor and cousin
of Istyarwen, steps out from a nearby tent, shuddering at the sight."I've
never seen *anything* like that. . . ."

Hearing the words of the elven maiden it has raised the curiosity of kaytana
walking over now to look to the lands Kaytana takes a step back as she sees
the red glow emenating from the land.

Alone and away from the camp and his kin, for the moment, stands the Naugrim
Lord Baraz. Fiery red hair shifts back and forth as the light wind blows
past it, and a soft reddish glow reflects in his usually blue eyes. Moving
slowly forward the dwarf lord comes to rest a few metres to the side of the
elven group. With a single nod towards the distant glow, the dwarf's rough
voice floats out into the night. "Nice sight ya got for yerself there..."

Staring at the horizon, his brows furrowed in thought, Breg stands with his
arms crossed upon his chest. He notices the words and actions of those
around him only a little until the lord Telchar arrives. His eyebrows arch
slightly and he lets out a huffing snort at the understatement. Gruffly he
speaks, "Aye 'tis definately something to look at isn't it. Looks as though
the Bauglir's using the whole north as a forge from that glow."

"But. . .but it comes from Angband, that is sure. Another trick of the
enemy, perhaps?" The eyes of the diplomat shines in the night like two cold
stars. "We have there our soldiers, in the Siege and. . ." She cuts off her
words. "Oh My, Angamaite!" She pales deeply and hides her now trembling
hands inside her cloak. After a while, the elleth gulps, and continues in
appearance quietly. "My Lord? Do you order anything? Should I call for the
Areherus or perhaps for Lord Herunomen?".

In almost a whisper now, Kaytana watches the glow then looks to the others,
and says "It seems to be growing, watch it." She points toward the eerie
redness in the distance. She looks to Lord Telchar now " My Lord, if this
continues,,," her words fade." Kaytana looks back into the distance as her
hand falls to her side.

Telchar begins to stroke his flowing beard and looks over to the historian,
and with a light chuckle he replies "It will be some task he ahs set himself
if it were..." Moving over now, coming closer to his two cousins, Telchar
nods slowly. "If it continues it will harm us little, we are far enough
away..." With a slight shrug Telchar turns back to watch the glow, "Be
interestin' to see whats gonna be happenin' around here with all them elves
now..." Half joking, yet half serious, the Dwarf Lord looks over to the
elven Lord and his small group.

Maedhros, silent and still for a long while as he gazes northward, suddenly
breaks out of his thoughts. He looks around to the anxious folk gathered
around him, and says in a stern voice, calm yet commanding, "We should
strike camp, at once! Who knows what foul devilry is at work here, but it
will not come upon us unprepared."

"Of course, my lord. . ." At once Araphel nods, though still her eyes remain
wide with fear. "What might I best do to help? There - there may be - " She
hesitates, swallowing nervously. "I have my supplies ready for travel. .
.wherever we must move to, as you see it. . . ."

Istyarwen turns her head to Telchar and glares upon him. "Indeed, it would
be a pain to lose Dorthonion and their people, because in this matter we are
a team and it would be a victory for the Foe" She hears the words of the
Prince and Araphel and bites her lips till they become white. "Will I may go
with you, My Lord? Despite I barely understand of weapons and battles,
perhaps I could help in another matters."

Breg glances at the elven group as they speak amongst themselves and then
turns his attention to Telchar. "That glow is far off now though my stomach
tells me it may not stay that way. Fire has a way of travelling and if it's
coming from the Bauglir you can bet that he's helpin it along. The tall one
over there seems to have the right idea, though it tears my beard that we're
going to turn tail now after all that's been done." he then turns
northwards, a grimace upon his face, and spits on the ground towards the far
off mountains.

Kaytana nods in agreement with Breg though not a word now does she speak.

Telchar chuckles dryly, "A pain or a blessing?...make sure ya get it right
elf.." Turning back to Breg, the Lord shrugs. "We'll see in a couple of
hours...though we needent move too far just yet...higher ground will do
until i get a better sight of it all..." Sighing, and with a slight shake of
his head, Telchar turns to face a dwarf standing behind him who then
immediately runs off back into the camp; presumably to alert everyone.

"Perhaps the blessing will be stay alone at home and discuss about whatever
on our way, without the interference of another gossiper people." Istyarwen
replies to Telchar icily but with a touch of irony in her words. Then she
turns again to Prince Maedhros waiting for his answer.

Maedhros's eyes grow wider as he stares out into the night. The flames glow
brighter and larger as the run nearer and nearer. He nods wildly at
Istyarwen. "We must all go." He raises his voice so all the camp can hear.
"Fly! To the hills! To Himring and higher ground! Swiftly!"

At once Araphel hurries to gather her things, quickly calling out to the
others, "At once! we must leave at once - by the order of Prince Maedhros!"
Assisting those about as best she can, she looks around anxiously,
attempting to ensure that some order is taken as the others hurry to pack
their things.

Kaytana walks over now to Lord Telchar, and bows her head deeply before
speaking, " With your permission My Lord, I shall ready my wagon."

Telchar nods to Kaytana, and with a mumbled 'Aye' he watches the elves.
Watching the diplomat carefully, the Lord shrugs and says loudly "If it
werent fer us then you wouldn't have a Lord ta hide behind..." Needing no
more said on the matter, Telchar looks to Breg "We shall move too...we'll
head towards Himring and let them elves put us up fer a while...Let's get
the caravan together..."

Bregs eyes aren't as sharp as the elves and it takes him a few more moments
to see the flames off in the distance. "Aye, Lord Telchar. It appears we've
run out of luck." With that he turns and heads back to the wagons at a trot.

The flames run nearer and nearer at a seemingly impossible speed. Their
roaring can now be heard as they greedily eat up the grasses of the plains.
Maedhros, now mounted on his steed, continues to yell out orders: "Fly! Take
your most precious goods and go! Mount horses and ponies! Leave the wagons!
Fly!"

Istyarwen runs to her horse, Tyelka, and mounts it quickly, ridden after to
Himring as quick as she can. Sometimes she looks behind, and sees the flames
covering the land and illumining the night in red.

Mounting her own horse, Araphel looks back, pausing only for a moment to
gaze regretfully toward the flames. . .and a close observer might, in less
noise, hear her murmur a single phrase. . . ."Aran Fingolfin. . ." Then,
swiftly, she turns, galloping her horse ahead to catch pace with the princes
and her cousin. . . .

"Ride, with all haste!" yells Maedhros, though he himself tarries a moment
longer to make sure all his folk flee to safety, as well as to look behind
at the coming fires. Seeing a Dwarf confusedly running hither and thither
without a pony, Maedhros leans down and scoops him up in his strong arms,
setting him before him on the horse. He takes one last look around and urges
his horse to gallop to safety.

Here, Maedhros slows and turns his steed to look back down the hill to the
plains where the camp had been. The sight that meets his eyes is horrible.
Where once stood Ard-galen, the Green Region, now roars a great sea of fire,
the likes of which have never before been beheld by the eyes of aught save
the Valar in their great wars. From the Mountains of Iron a foul smoke
belches forth. Maedhros can make out the campsite where the wagons once
stood--they are so quickly engulfed in fire and burned to black ash. Not
only is the heat of the fires overwhelming, but the smoke and the ash make
breathing intolerable. Tears streaking down his proud face, Maedhros turns
his horse again. "Higher, higher!" he cries.

Istyarwen dismounts Tyelka ignoring the command of her Lord, looking at the
north, doubting about what to do, but soon she begins to cough and to cry,
when the smoke arrives and catch her. But still she remains there, her cloak
and her head fill of ashes, now crying but for her brother.

"Istyarwen, come ON - " Araphel calls, wrapping her cloak about her face as
best she can as she follows Maedhros on up, pulling her hood to better
shadow her face. "There is nothing to be gained by delay - "

"But Angamaite. . . he is in the North" she replies to Araphel among her
tears. "He is in the Siege. . .". The elleth tries to look to the north but
it is impossible. With a sigh, she mounts again and rides to the gates,
following the group.

"And what can you do about it from here - and what do you think he would
wish? For you to perish while you stand watching?" With a sigh, Araphel
trots ahead. "Forgive me - I must see to Prince Maglor - if there is aught
he needs while they plan - "

Glinirnaeth rides down, back from the gates he had already reached. "What
are you waiting for, friends? We have to be inside the walls ere the enemy
arrives. If there is any safety it is in the citadel."

Andori ion Feanaro - Within the Gates

This high, smoothly arched tunnel extends perhaps twenty metres in length,
leading from the mighty outer Gates of the Sons of Feanor, to the stout
wooden Inner Gates of the City of Himring. The walls are of marble--a white,
polished surface laced with veins of grey and yellowish ochre, and the
corridor would be dark but for the pale blue globes of eerie luminescence
that float near eye-level upon either side. The Feanorian Lamps, they are
called, and there are five of them, evenly spaced, upon both the right and
the left, lined in a row from the Outer Gates to the Inner. The path itself
is paved in large stones of granite, and its feel beneath your feet is hard
indeed. Upon either side of the path, a wrought-iron gate is set in the
wall, leading into a torchlit stair that ascends to the lofty, open-aired
battlements of the fortress-city.

Istyarwen dismounts Tyelka, and give the reins to a page. "Take my horse to
the stables, he is exhausted of the ride" she commands, and turns to the
north, looking at the flames. She watches the quickly departure of Prince
Maedhros calling for the Arherus, and when the elleth is sure that all the
people is within the Gates, turns to the guards. "Close the doors!" she
cries. Whit a sigh in relief, she searches the support of a wall and closes
for a moment her eyes.

"Let us just hope they hold back what is coming..." Glinirnaeth frowns. "If
all else fails, we have to take refuge in the citadel proper, but we cannot
stay there for long. Not the whole city." His eyes follow the guards running
to the levers and winches controlling the huge gate mechanism.

"In the citadel! All the city!" Istyarwen opens wide her eyes and looks in
surprise to Glinirnaeth, as he was crazy. "If we need to refuge us there, it
will be the end for Himring, indeed" She pales deeply. "Nay, we are able to
defend this city and the walls are strong and high. We are in safety here.
But I wonder my self, how will they be the people in Dorthonion and in Barad
Eithel. Or in Minas Tirith".

Glinirnaeth sighs and shakes his head. "They also thought they could contain
him where he was or even drive him out. Now look around you...." Once more,
the bard shakes his head, turnign around to scan the city. "Fools."

"Fools you say now, Glinirnaeth" Istyarwen turns to the bard. "But also some
people opined that to left Valinor was a foolishness and a nonsense. Then,
Why did you follow the king and did not remain in the blessed Kingdom, I
wonder?". The maiden watches how the Gates are now closed and smiles
briefly. But she looks around the city too, and sees the terrified
population, running and crying, while the soldiers take their positions".

"Maybe I was a fool, then, too?" Glinirnaeth replies. "But why should that
impede me from seeing the truth now? It does not matter...we have to see
that everybody stays safe now..."

"Well, I see that you regret of the travel, then, Glinirnaeth. Alas, you
cannot return to Aman and you are cursed like me and our kin." She shrugs.
"And now it is too much late to regret whatever, but perhaps your ideas
would be better accepted in Mithrim." She bites her lips. "If Mithrim still
exists."

"Accepted? Yes. Needed? No." the bard replies. "It is here where our
warriors think they can afford the luxury of foolishness, trying to outfight
a vala... None of that matters now..."

"Certainly you are a pessimist, I see." Istyarwen replies looking at the
bard with pity. "And you are weird. You refuse the acts, past and present,
of our kin, but you live here among us. I do not like to give counsels, but
at least and for your own safety, better it would be to restrain your tongue
and do not speak such words with other people."

"I know very well how little the people like my words." Glinirnaeth replies.
"But some say that medicine has to taste bitter in order to work..." He
turns towards the gates. "Given that, this one should be the best and the
worst of it..."

"I am not surprised that some people hate you, then, and look at you as if
you be a treacherous. Last thing we need in this moment, moreover, is to
hear words of . . . say words as you use to speak. But well, it was only a
counsel." She follows the gaze of Glinirnaeth. "My, I would want depart as
soon as possible and now. . . and now I wonder when I will can leave
Himring".

"I told you none of that matters now...so do not fear about that." the bard
replies. "And you will be glad if you can leave anytime soon. I fear this
might take longer than we can anticipate now..."

"Also I fear that. . . This attack seems an invasion. Now we will go to the
war, to try to recover Lothlann, and who knows how far the Foe could arrive
in the East. So, I will cannot leave the city, and less to cross Beleriand".
Istyarwen bites her lips again. "My brother is in Lothlann and my mother is
in Thargelion. And my cousin and I are here. All the family divided. . .once
more".

"If there is sense in your brother, he will try to make it here..."
Glinirnaeth sighs "...if he can make it..."

"He will follow the orders. . .I hope. Because I know well him, and sure he
will want to defend the hills. . .even though he need to pay it with his
life". Istyarwen's eyes fill in tears and she turns her head to hide her
face.

Glinirnaeth puts a hand on the elleth's shoulder. "I hope for you he will
come. Just wait a few days..."

"To wait, always to wait. . .I have been waiting for whoever all my life.
Waiting for my Lords, for my sister, for my father, for. . ." she cuts off
her word and balance her body. "At least he is in Nargothrond, or so I hope.
But if Finrod goes to the war to defend Aegnor and Angrod, he will follow
him till the end. . ."

"Celvir?" he shakes his head. "Aye, he is loyal to his lord, but no warrior
is he..."

"But he went to the battle in Ard-Galen, a month ago, and he survived. .
.But you are right, he is not a warrior, at least with a sword in his hands.
But he promised to Finarfin to care for his children and he will do it. . ."

Glinirnaeth nods. "Aye, but he could do so also by administrating the city
while the King is out."

Istyarwen shakes her head, firmly. "Nay. He will follow to Finrod to protect
him. Or Orodreth. Or. . .Everyone here has his own Oath, it seems." The
maiden grins. "And later people say that we are a bunch of crazies. . ."

"But if that so, his oath only drives him to protect, not to kill."

"Really?" Well, then it would be interesting to see what he would do if
someone would want kill Finrod or another Son of Finarfin!".

"He might kill, but he is not forced to do so. He can drive to flee or he
can disable," the bard explains. "He is not sworn to eradicate all
opposition."

The elleth smirks. "You have not too much speak with him or, at least, you
do not know him as I do. In his life there is no place for another thing,
only to follow and to accomplish his promise." She remains silent for a
while. "Aye, there is no place".

"But there are different ways to do so. Our men only know one..."

"Of course that is your opinion about, but mostly here thinks another. For
example, I believe that there is only a way to follow, and that is my
personal doom. But I do not wish to speak about now."

"As you wish, Istyarwen. So what would you rather talk about?" the bard
inquires.

The maiden tilts her head. "Indeed, the world downs around us and we begin a
discuss that. . .". She raises her head and looks to the citadel and the
tower. "But I should be there, and not here. Prince Maedhros wants to leave
the city and faces the enemy, and soon. Araphel is searching for Prince
Maglor. . . and I wish to ride too beside our Lords."

"To do what?" Glinirnaeth asks. "What do you want to do amidst the gaur, the
orcs and the valaraukar?"

Istyarwen laughs softly. "I am not sure, my friend, but I hope to help our
people. . .how to do it, I do not know. But I trust in my own skills."

"Your skills, mellon, I fear will be of little use on the battlefield, and
you might be disabled ere you figure out how to help."

"I know it, of course. . . But do not forget, please, that I have faced
already the enemy, and closer that mostly of the noldor. Moreover, I still
remember some lessons of my mother. I am not a healer, but either I faint
when I see the blood. And now. . .and now all the hands will be a help. But
a diplomat am I, and I think that I could not help here in the citadel."

"Maybe the elder Prince can spare some warriors and escort you to the
Mountains, to see how Caranthir fares and coordinate with him and the
Naugrim...we need every help we can get and the small people are fierce
warriors." Glinirnaeth suggests.

"Sure, sure. . ." She laughs. "We could do a nice travel. The question is
how to leave Himring, if we are siege by the enemy. And who knows, if all
the Princes have already problems! Well, do not worry for me." She looks
again to the citadel. "Now I will go to my room, to prepare several things
and. . .who knows, perhaps before our arrival it arrived a messenger of
Prince Maglor, or of Himlad. Namarie ar Hantale, meldo. And good luck!."

"Namarie" Glinirnaeth nods "It certainly would be good to hear news, though
I am afraid they might be discouraging."
