FootHills of Ered Wethrin

In the distance like shadows, a natural barrier of the mountians rises in
the SouthWest--Ered Wethrin. Here the mountians break into foot hills and
rounded knolls sitting before the rising range of summits. Flowing West, the
waters babble along. To the NorthEast the land grows flat and empty. Down
the hills to the SouthEast, the odor of the smelly swamp carries on the
breeze.

Cast:

Fingolfin Nolofinwe, High King of the Noldor

Aurival, Counsellor to Fingolfin

Fingalad Chieftan, Mithrim Army

Aracor of Dor-Lomin

Night has fallen hard upon Beleriand, and the moon is new. Little light is
to be had from the stars as the sky is shrouded with a deep mirk of ashen
clouds and smoke. Here and there, fitful fires still burn, though the path
through the foothils, while uncomfortably warm, is clear. Snow that the fire
did not reach outright has melted, mixing with the ash to form a gooey
morass of mud, through wich the horses of the war-party pick their way.

For a journey that should have taken a mere hour or two has taken half a
day, and the horse and riders and foot-soldiers of Mithrim and Dor-Lomin are
weary. As the path below them broadens, Fingolfin raises his hand to call
for a halt, slowing and then stopping his great steed. "We will wait here,
and send scouts ahead. I would prefer to wait for morning to go further; I
cannot see far in this reek."

Aracor rides in the vanguard of the Dor-Lomin force, a heavy cloaked wrapped
about him over his leather armor to ward against the cold and damp of this
utterly miserable weather. But the cloak seems to have slight effect, if
any, in that regard...every several minutes the strudy young Adan is shaken
by a fit of coughing that bends him nearly double with its force. Aracor
does not complain, but rather tries to stifle the coughs as best as possible
as he waits for whatever command will come.

"It is as if all light was taken from us," Aurival murmurs to himself. He
halts his horse a short distance from the king's and stares forward into the
gloom. A sword hangs at his side and mail gleams from beneath his cloak,
looking out of place on the king's counselor. He sits straight on his steed
despite the weariness of the long ride, and his expression is grim. "I
wonder if we shall ever see Varda's stars again?"

Having ridden with Prince Fingon for most of the day, Fingalad has been
taking in all that the Prince would tell him concerning his new position.
The wisdom of the Prince is great, and he must learn all that he can from
him with great haste. As his war steed plods through the mire, he sees the
Aran ahead stop. Stopping his own horse, he dismounts and looks up, hoping
but failing to see any sign of the stars. "Will this accursed reek never
depart?!" he mutters to himself.

Fingolfin listens to his counsellor, and hears the words of the chieftan
behind him. Frowning, he shakes his head slightly, looking out over the
plain. And then he begins to speak, slowly, thoughtfully, his words quiet,
yet carrying at least to the front ranks. "Long ago, ere time was counted in
sun-years, the stars were dim, faint, distant lights in the vast firmament.
They illuminated little, and under the night-shadows darkness ruled in
Beleriand, and all the lands eastward." As Fingolfin speeks, his voice
deepens, growing richer, firmer, unshakable by the gloom about him. "Yet in
the West, the Valar held council, for they knew the arrival of the Firstborn
was nigh at hand, and long they pondered their course of action..."

The king's commanding tone captures Aurival's attention, and he shifts his
gaze to Fingolfin.

Aracor has connected.

Lightly stepping through the mire, Fingalad stops as he hearkens to the
resonant voice of his King, speaking of years long since past. A quiet
confidence takes him, as he listens to the power in the voice of the great
Aran.

"Long they sat in thought, the Powers of Arda," continues Fingolfin, his
eyes shining in the darkness as he continues his tale. "Long they debated on
what was to be done. And then Varda Tintalle, Elentari went forth from the
council, and looked up into the dark skies. And from the wells whence were
kept the dews of Telperion she drew the shining liquid, and began her
greatest work, the kindling of the stars, renewed and brighter than those of
old. Great Menelmacar she hung in the sky, the Swordsman, and the Remmirath,
the netted stars. Fair Wilwarin she hung, bright Helluin, Alcarinque,
Elemmire. And in the North she set the Valacirya, the great Sickle, a
warning to Morgoth and a hope to us. For in that hour when the stars shone
bright, by the waters of Cuivienen awoke the people of the stars. And they
looked up, and saw the work of Elentari, and were glad. Aiya! Let us be glad
as well. The stars yet shine, even if we cannot see them."

Aracor has disconnected.

Listening intently to the tale of history spoken now by the High King,
Fingalad remembers fondly when his own father's father told him the same
story when he was a small boy in Valinor. As he listens, he takes heart in
the Aran's courage, yet says nothing, not wanting this brief moment of
happiness to pass.

Although he speaks no word, Aurival nods faintly and manages a tight smile
as he listens to the king's speech. He gives his horse a gentle pat on the
neck, and the animal clops through the mud, closing the distance with
Fingolfin's horse. "I remember those stars," he speaks up finally, his voice
quiet against the heavy air. "As they gave us hope in the darkness, so too
do your words give us strength now."

The son of Finwe smiles slightly, his gaze catching Aurival's. "The stars
yet shine; the Valar have not taken them away from us. Only Morgoth would
hide them from us; I add t to the list of his crimes." He shakes his head
briefly, and then sighs. "When all this is over, we shall make a great
feast, even as the Mereth Aderthad. And people will come from across
Beleriand and celebrate under those stars, and be unafraid once more..."

Leading his stallion through the muck and mire slowly, Fingalad joins his
Aran Fingolfin and Aurival. Seeing here and there small pockets of flame on
the horizon flare up and disappear, he says to the Aran, "M'lord, do you
believe that the flames are gone, for the most part? Or is it possible that
the waning of the fires is yet some ruse by the enemy?" He strokes the neck
of his steed as he inquires of the High King.

"I do not think it is a ruse," answers Fingolfin heavily, his voice slower
now. "What need? There is little left to burn." He shakes his head, his eyes
scanning the dim, smoking plain. "If what we saw from the fortress was any
indication, his hosts march upon the plain in great numbers. They like the
flame as little as we, perhaps..."

His own gaze following that of his Aran's, Fingalad nods silently, having
not thought of it in that perspective. "M'Lord, would that I scout ahead
some ways, and see what I may find?"

Logfile from Fingolfin

"A scouting party would be a good idea," Aurival agrees with Fingalad,
looking to Fingolfin. "This weather dampens all sight. I feel closed in, as
if we were in a trap with fire on all sides. It would be nice to know where
the enemy waits."

"Go then, Fingalad, and take other scouts with you," says Fingolfin softly.
"And leave your horse; we do not want them alerting the enemy. We press on
again at dawn.... please return by then..."

Bowing to the Aran, Fingalad says, "It shall be as you say, m'lord." Leading
his steed to the middle of the company, he gives it by the lead to a
comrade. He then hand-picks three kinsmen, all experienced and
battle-tested. The four soldiers then walk in a silent column northward,
into the darkness. These companions have all had scouting experience, and
Fingalad believes in there ability. There robes covering their armor, they
show no steel, trusting to stealth to be the eyes and ears for their Aran.
Into the darkness the small company passes, and is gone.

Waiting until the scouts have moved away out of earshot, Aurival lowers his
voice and says to Fingolfin, "I am glad that you have strength and hope, for
I have little left beyond my trust in you. This darkness weighs upon my
heart until I can barely think. Do you really believe we will weather this
storm?"

"We will weather it, Aurival," answers Fingolfin, lowering his voice as
well. "Take heart; my tale was for all ears, including yours. Yet... the
darkness weighs upon my heart too...' He looks up at the shrouded sky, and a
slight smile plays upon his lips. "I remember the trees, shining upon the
Ezellohar... the bright dews falling from their leaves... the fair maidens
that sang and danced beneath them.... No matter what, he cannot take away
who we are..."
