Dusk falls fast in Serech. All day the heavy clouds have weighed down upon
the hosts of Nargothrond and Falas as they rode toward the pass, dampening
spirits and increasing the tension among the soldiers. For most of the long
day, the king rode at the head of the army, pushing his folk northward as
quickly as the tired horses would allow. Now, as most of the army prepares
to make camp just south of the Fen, Finrod paces the edge of the Fen
restlessly, as invisible as a shadow in his grey cloak.

With quiet step and somber expression, Elsabet slips in towards the fen from
the camp. Her eyes are fixed on the ground, but not on her feet; her gaze
slowly scanning the swampish area. A quiver of arrows is on her back and her
bow carried across a shoulder, and a small brown bag hangs from her right
hand. She crouches down, pulling up a small plant with spiky green-gray
leaves and places it in the bag.

In the solitude of the night, a bored maiden who rests alone in the tent of
the healers, awakes and yawns. She blinks for a moment and rises on the bed.
Carefully, she leaves it and looks around, searching for a dress and shoes,
but she only find a grey cloak on a chair, far from her bed. She approaches
and takes the cloak, but sudden she feels still weary and seats on the
chair, for a while. After some minutes, when her mind is clear, she dresses
the cloak and walking slowly she leaves the tent, her hair free and
barefooted.

Curundil walks up to Taragil quietly. More quietly than most would have
expected from the usually clumsy elven page. Then, when he's near enough,
having approached in such a way as to keep the tent between him and his
target, he pops his head around the side of one of the newly set up camps
and says to the Falathrim elf, "Boo!"

Yet the elvenking is not the only being to pace the shifting shadows of the
great fen. Other shadows slip in and out of the darkness, fluid shapes with
strange, whispering voices that begin the moment night's shroud settles over
the land. cold mist seeps, clings, twining and re-twining, the stench now
not of rotting vegetation, but of death, death of elves upon the plains.
Eyes gleam, ephemeral-- real, or no? and then fade away once more, into the
chill nightshade.

Cockroaches could not scuttle faster than the pace that Taragil takes to
scramble from his seat, and a dog would probably envy the startled yelp that
escapes his lips. Then, as the Falas squire gains his feet and pauses to
consider the likelihood of his Falathrim masters forbiddingly crying "Boo!",
exasperation replaces the panic in Taragil's eyes and he rounds on the
beaming face peering around the tent. "Oh, hilarious!" the squire says
sulkily.

Curundil folds his arms across his chest and grabs his sides in an attempt
to stifle his own laughter. "Oh, your face!" he says, still trying to keep
from laughing, "I'm sorry. You've been so edgy, I thought you could use a
distraction." Looking around, he adds conversationally, "Ever been to this
Fen before? I have. A different part of it, though. Nearer where the Adan of
Dorthonion live. I found the strangest looking frog here, last time."

Suddenly Finrod halts his pacing and stares ahead into the Fen, narrowing
his eyes as he peers through the twilight air. Far away, at the edge of
Elven sight, a pair of weary travelers make their way across the Fen. Blood
stains cover their clothes and hair, and they stumble along through the
swampy land, as if ready to collapse at any instant. Their shields have long
since been abandoned, but the torn insignias on their clothing mark them as
part of Angrod's folk. With a gasp, Finrod darts out into the Fen,
forgetting all thought of caution.

"Right now I wish *I* were a frog -" Taragil begins, then glances up in
surprise as Aran Finrod darts away into the dour Fen. "Uh-oh. Things are
happening around here already. Think we should follow him, peerless
swordsmen that we are?" He looks at Curundil without cracking a smile.

A healer follows Istyarwen and try to stop her, but she refuses and
continues walking. "But I am tired to be in bed" the elleth claims. "I want,
I need to leave that tent or I will become mad soon. And if I have nor
shoes, nor tunic to dress, certainly I will walk by the camp in such way."
But the cold of this night makes Istyarwen shivers and she notices how her
feet begin to freeze. "I do not wish to rest more inside the tent of the
healers, I am already recovered."

The perpetually oblivious Coiannor (it must run in the family) had made no
notice of the presence of any on the fen except for those of the Nargo and
Falathrim camps. When Finrod darts forward, she straightens up from the
recent pluck of a plant and drops it into her bag, absently brushing off her
hands, dirty and slimy from the swamp, as she peers out after him. Elsabet
shifts her gaze towards Curundil, arching a questioning eyebrow as though
he'd know what's going on. Well ..he /is/ the King's squire ...

Curundil doesn't even bother to answer Taragil, having taken off at full
tilt after his king already with one hand on the hilt of the sword his
father gave him. He doesn't stop until he reaches the king's side, at which
point, recognizing the insignia on the pair of newcomers wears, he gasps.

"Oh, bother," Taragil sighs, watching Curundil's disappearing back with a
shake of his head. Catching Elsabet's eye and giving a twirl of his finger
about his ear to let her know exactly what he thinks of her kinsman's state
of mind, the Falas squire turns about and jogs resignedly into the murky fen
in pursuit, wincing at every messy squelch his boots raise.

Following the fugitives of Dorthonion is a bleak shade, pacing swiftly
throught the mists, silent, cold as, colder than death. Yet it gives pause,
watching as another comes forth to meet them, and green eyes gleam balefully
in cruel satisfaction. Let the news they bear spread; the Master shall have
them soon enough. And a ring of shadow-shapes begins to form about the Fen,
still silent and hidden in the fog.

Elsabet smiles at Taragil's gesture and steps forward as well, curiously, to
stare at the visitors. She folds her arms across her chest, rubbing her
hands over her upper arms briskly, to warm up, before dropping them to her
side again, one hand resting easily inside the crook of her bow.

At the other side of the camp, Celvir is directing the ordering of the tents
for the night, so he does not notice the king's departure at first, until a
guard hurries up to him to inform him of the news. With a look of dismay, he
pulls himself away from his work and hurries to the edge of the swamp.
"Terandil!" he orders. "Take a score of the guards and go after the king! He
should not be alone in this mire, even to meet with his brothers'
messengers. There may be enemies about. Elsabet, my lady, can you go with
them and keep an eye on Curundil? I can't follow at the moment. There is too
much to do here."

Istyarwen looks the weird fog on the Fen from afar and all her remembrances
and her fair arrive again to her mind. She glances upon some figures that
begin to disappear among the mist but for a moment she seems to be
hypnotised and unable to call out them. Finally she starts to run to the
Fen. Twice she slips on the ice and falls, but twice she rises and continues
running.

Elsabet nods seriously at Celvir, running forward to join her cousin.
Glancing about at the fog apprehensively, she begins to rue her lack of
armor ..but then, she is a healer, not a fighter, and nothing is like to go
wrong. She catches sight of Istyarwen and looks startled for a moment before
glancing down disapprovingly at her bare feet. She will be sure to reprimand
Istyarwen when she comes into earshot, but for now, she merely comes to a
stop by her cousin, looking faintly confused about what's going on.

Extracting his boots from a sucking patch of mud, Taragil wins his way to
Curundil and Elsabet only moments later, sparing curious glances both for
Istyarwen over his shoulder and the new-emerged figures from the Fen before
him.

The king finally catches up to the pair of straggling elves deep within the
Fen. They fall to their knees in relief when they see him and the taller of
the two begins weeping. "King Finrod," she says, her hands grasping feebly
at his cloak, as if to assure herself that he is real. "You have come too
late! The fires! The fires!" Her words trail away into tears and she lowers
her head. Finrod sinks to the swampy ground beside her and places a hand on
her shoulder. "Rest easy," he says gently. "You are among friends now. Calm
yourself and tell me what has happened."

Looking distressed at the state of the newly arrived pair, Curundil comes to
a stop just behind Finrod, then goes down to one knee on the ground besides
them, pulling out his canteen as he does so. "Are you thirsty? Would you
like something to drink?" he asks, at a loss to find some other way to help.

Elsabet shifts her weight awkwardly from foot to foot, wishing to help
comfort as well. However, with Curundil on one side and Aran Finrod on the
other, if any more people gather in they may feel uncomfortable. So she
hangs back, waiting with baited breath to hear what happened.

--The fires, the fires--

A soft, sibilant whisper begins with these words, hissing softly over the
ash-covered reeds, bending them so that they rattle, crackle, the odd sound
like the memory of flames, a wraith of sound that evokes the recent burning.

--Death... death... all dead... all gone...--

Words seem to form of the shadow-wind, words of death, dying.

--Death to the House of Finarfin...--

The elf beside Finrod is weeping too badly to reply, but her companion nods
at Curundil's words. "Yes, water," she whispers through parched lips.

Curundil passes his canteen to the second newcomer, though he keeps a hand
on it so he can help steady it as she drinks. When the whispering sounds,
however, his head snaps up, and he asks, "Aran? Did you hear that? Where'd
it come from?"

Taragil's head shoots up at the eerie whispering of the fen, and his initial
suspicious glare - to see whether Curundil has perfected the talent of
throwing his voice - turns cold when he sees the page looking about as
startled as he. "What was that?" the thandir hisses, nervously pulling on
one boot with a loud sucking noise.

Elsabet takes her bow off her shoulder and reaches up an arm to pull an
arrow out of her quiver, but thinks better of it. Perhaps she just imagined
that malevolent whisper. There's surely nothing she can /see/ that might
have caused it. "I heard it too," she speaks up hesitantly, now actually
taking an arrow and nocking it, though she does not draw the bow, having no
target. She glances about through the fog, anxious and worried.

Without a breath and exhausted, Istyarwen soon arrives closer to the fog,
but she cannot already see to Taragil and Curundil. She seats on the ground
and begin to cry, till the moment that she hears from afar the dark whispers
on the fen and begins again to shiver, this time terrified. Thinking that
all is lost once more, she begins to return back to the camp, dragging her
steps slowly. But the evil fog soon touches her feet.

"I know not," Finrod murmurs, raising his head to listen. The fog grows
thicker with each passing moment. Already it blocks their view of the
distant camp. "I have never heard such a sound before." He looks back to the
two tattered elves beside him, quickly determining that they will not be
able to travel fast or far along the swampy ground. "Please, mellon," he
says gently to the weeping elf, "Have you news of Angrod and Aegnor? And
what of the High King?"

Curundil asks one of the newcomers urgently, "Have you heard that sort of
whispering before? I didn't think this place was haunted. It didn't do that
last time I was here."

"Don't say haunted!" Taragil hisses, clenching and unclenching his fingers
nervously over the silver-hilted sword at his side.

--Death to the House of Finarfin...--

The hissing sibilance continues, and the fog thickens, darkens, twissting,
whirling, the fringes causing the reeds to dance madly, a dry sound like
tongues of flame.

--All dead.... gone.... death...--

Curundil frowns, and says quietly to Finrod, "Aran, I think we should get
these two back to the camp and hear their story there. I suspect we're not
alone out here, and that these two may have been followed."

"Aegnor and Angrod are dead, Aran," the elf maid whispers through her tears.
Her companion hands the water skin back to Curundil and nods. "The fires
from the north, they swept across Ard-Galen, even to the base of the
mountains. And the yrch...they were upon us in an instant, tens of
thousands, pressing at us night and day. We two barely escaped with our
lives."

Elsabet stares blankly into the fog. Aegnor and Angrod both dead, and so
many elves with them.. and tales of tens of thousands of yrch. It certainly
does not bode well. She shifts her weight again from foot to foot, nodding
at her cousin's advice. "Camp is good," she mutters softly to herself. This
fog is not.

"Dead? Both of them? No!" blurts out Curundil in shock, almost dropping the
canteen as it's handed back to him, "We're too late?" His shoulders slump,
and he looks down at the mud, "I rode as fast as I could from Barad Eithel
once the fires started. I did.." he says almost to himself, "How can we
still be too late?"

Taragil goes pale both at the elf-maid's dreadful words and the dreadful,
incessant whispering. "Tens of *thousands* of yrch? Aegnor *and* Angrod?
Surely not. Surely not -" Suddenly he breaks off, losing a thread of his
ordinarily easy temper as the whispers go on, and shouts into the mist with
a bravado he clearly does not feel. "Oh, hold your words, bold hisser of
threats from the murk!" he sneers. "Only children shy at cowering shadows!"

--Dead... dead...--

The whispers continue, and the fog thickens, becomming as a wal, dark,
seeming impenetrable. The wind shifts, blowing from all directions-- which
direction?

--Too late... too late...--

All color drains from Finrod's face as he listens to the report and he lifts
his head to gaze to the northeast. Curundil's words reach him as from a
distance and he nods absently. "Aye, we should return to camp. We were too
late." He draws in a ragged breath and his voice trails away to to murmur,
echoing the dark words from the fog. "Too late.."

Curundil surreptitiously wipes his cheek on his right shoulder, perhaps to
remove a tear that had fallen unseen. Then he attempts to help one of the
elf-maids to her feet. "Come, I'll help you back to our camp," he tells her,
then says to Finrod, "We should go, Aran. I hate to say this, but those
whispers make me wonder if this mightn't be a trap."

Dark shapes form and re-form in the mists, some nearly identifiable, some
less so, wolves perhaps, orcs, and... other things crawled out from
nightmares. And then a shift of the wind, and all are gone, and only the
mist remains, blank and chill. And the sibilant whispering now turns to
laughter, and the dank foggy tendrils twine ever closer.

--Camp, camp... all dead at the camp...--

"Let the would-be captors regret it if it is," says Taragil fiercely, his
own grey eyes blinking hard, and paces a few angry steps with his grey cloak
fluttering, glaring helplessly and half-tearfully into the darkness.

"Captors?" replies Curundil, "Tara, if they won't take us, they'll kill us!
We should.." he trails off as he sees the dark forms in the mist, then
blinks in confusion as they disappear again. "Elsabet," he says carefully,
"I think you should stay a little closer to us. Did anyone else come out
after?"

At the word "trap", Finrod seems to break from his trance. He turns sharply
to face Curundil and a fell light comes into his eyes. "It is a trap," he
says with certainty. "And as a fool, I fell within it!" He pushes to his
feet, all the tension and concern he has shown over the long days of travel
solidifying into anger within him. "Well said, mellon!" he replies to
Taragil. "Let those who would attack us fear the brightness of our blades!"

No tears come to Elsabet's eyes, but simply blank helplessness. She cannot
believe the whispers ... she refuses to believe them. And perhaps the two
messengers are exagerrating. Her eyes are still dull and blank, however, her
shoulders slumped as though bearing a weighty load as she turns about into
the darkness, her sight blocked off by the thick and swirling fog. Which
direction /was/ camp in? Cut off and feeling lost, gaze darting anxiously at
the shapes, she fingers her bow. Which ones are real and which are not? She
daren't fire just yet ...it may just be her imagination, shifting the shapes
of friends into foes. Dutifully, she takes a few steps inward towards her
cousin, still looking outward from the group. She clears her throat and
answers, "Celvir sent Terandil and a score of men out after us ..they should
be right around here somewhere." As if answering the call, the group is
revealed in the shifting fog just to the right. Good thing she didn't try
and shoot towards there ...

Taragil casts Curundil a slightly smug (though watery) glance at the Aran's
praise, but his teasing grin lasts only a moment and is all too quickly gone
- there is menace and more than menace in the air, a darkness deeper even
than the grief of the two survivors' words. "There was another, as well," he
says softly. "One walking unshod behind us ... where is she?" He turns to
look.

"Celvir always knows what to do," states Curundil with certainty in his
voice. Easing one of the elf maids to her feet, he says, "Come on, put your
arm over my shoulder, you're sore tired. The camp's not too far." He pauses
briefly to shift positions so he can draw his blade and carry it in his
right hand, while supporting the elf-maid on his left. "Tara!" he calls,
"You'd better make sure whoever it was who was coming unshod is alright!"

"The Lady Istyarwen," Elsabet answers Taragil. "She headed back to camp ..or
at least in that direction." The Coiannor peers out again into the darkness
and fog. "I cannot see her. Perhaps she made it all the way back..."

The shadows press closer, and, of a sudden, eyes are revealed, hundreds,
thousands of eyes, perhaps, bright, flickering, filled with hatred and the
light of the fires of Angband. Revealed for a moment, baleful, staring, they
turn their hypnotic gaze upon the small and now-wary group. And then the
darkness swirls again, and the eyes vanish. Yet a soft voice comes out of
the night, soft, singular, almost soothing. "Too late, too late.. why fight,
join them in death... so easy..."

Taragil continues to scan the bewildering fog in frustration, gritting his
teeth at the sourceless voice's taunts, and then gives a sudden cry as he
finally sees Istyarwen, struggling some yards away in what may or may not be
the direction of the camp. "There! - Mellon, mellon! Come back! Stay close!"
Shaking his head, the thandir breaks into a run towards Istyarwen, his grey
eyes constantly darting around the sinister fens in nervous anticipation.

"Never!" Finrod cries to the unseen foe. "Never shall we surrender while we
live! Reveal yourself, minion of Morgoth! We shall not be cowed by shadows
and whispered words!" When he sees Taragil start to run off, Finrod turns
quickly. "We must not separate! Follow me!" He presses into the fog slowly,
careful of his footing on the swampy ground.

Falling behind slightly, Curundil continues to help one of the newly met
elf-maids, while one of Terandil's soldiers hastens to come to the aid of
the other. "Easy with your footing, milady," Curundil says to the elleth
he's helping, "Though no doubt you know the grounds of this swamp better
than I do by now."

Elsabet gasps, startled, at the sight of the eyes pressing all about, taken
away as swiftly as it was revealed. She turns quickly and follows Finrod
closely, though cautiously, her eyes picking out the people in their group,
hoping that nobody becomes left behind. She stumbles on a bit of unseen rock
but swiftly recovers herself, her gaze still turned outwards.

"Then you shall die..."

The words are deep, cold, and around them rises an inhuman song, throaty,
soul-less, remorseless. The sound hovers for a moment, distorted by the fog,
and then grows. Wolf-song perverted, haunting and chill, twines with the
mist-shrouded shadows.

The gaurhoth hunt.

Taragil gasps and jerks back around towards the horrible sound for a moment,
his grey eyes wide, before turning and running even harder than before to
Istyarwen, slipping and staggering through the mud to the elleth's side.
"Back this way! Oh, Valar, quickly!" he cries, catching the maid's arm and
staring frantically around the fens.

Falling behind still farther, Curundil stubbornly continues to help the
exhausted elleth from Angrod's tower along, occasionally murmuring an
encouraging word to her. He mostly manages to keep the urgency from his
voice, even when he notices the ghostlike forms begin to coalesce into
something more solid, and more terrible.

The fog lies heavily over the Fen, blocking off all sight and sound of those
who wait in the camp. Celvir stands at the edge of the fen, trying but
failing to see through the mist. His fingers tighten at his sides in
frustration as he waits. Finally, he turns sharply and calls to one of the
captains. "I do not like this fog. There is evil within it. Double the watch
and be prepared for combat." He stalks off toward the healer's tent.
"Istyarwen, my lady," he calls as he approaches, "Have you a moment? I
would..." He pauses in surprise as he realizes that she is not in the place
where he left her. "Istyarwen?"

"Curundil, don't fall behind!" Elsabet fairly pleads as she loses sight of
her cousin for a moment, dropping back herself as soon as the fog reveals
him once more to join him. "I'll help her out, you stay by the king," she
says, taking her place at the elleth's other side.

"We can both help her, Elsabet," replies Curundil, still struggling with the
elleth, who is almost completely exhausted, "But she just can't move much
faster than this."

"Do not leave Finrod alone. He will slay him tonigth". The voice of the pale
and freeze elleth replies. "And probably he will die as him brothers, also.
Please, Curundil, leave me on the ground and go with your Lord."

Hearing Elsabet's words, Finrod halts and peers back through the fog.
"Hurry!" he calls. "We dare not delay. The enemy will strike at any time.
Have your swords ready!" He slides his blade from its scabbard and glances
around in a futile attempt to see his foes.

Taragil shudders at the thickening touch of the mist and drops his hand from
Istyarwen's arm, his gaze growing ever more frantic. Cupping his hands
around his mouth, the thandir draws in a deep breath and raises a desolate,
desperate cry that bounds mournfully across the fens: "Hoy the camp! Hoy,
the camp!"

Yet the shadows close in once more, obscuring the land, obscuring the wind,
making directions unclear. And the dark shapes come closer, closer, and the
whispering fades into soft exhalations, the sound of breathing. One breath,
many breaths, all are one in the darkness, as if the night itself is the maw
of a great beast, come to swallow them all.

"Oh, Valar," Taragil groans, snatching his sword from its sheath at his
back, and raises his voice in another hopeless cry - "Hoy, the camp!"

"Curundil, I cannot fight and you can. Leave me with her and I'll help her
out as best I can," Elsabet says, a new sort of authority in her stern
voice. She places the bow cross her shoulders once again, dropping the arrow
back into the quiver. As soon as the action is completed, she regrets it,
but stays with the elleth. She begins a healing song to try and give her
energy, but her voice breaks and fades as the shapes come closer. Gathering
her courage, she begins once again, the song low and soothing.

Realizing that Elsabet and the elleth haven't a chance of catching up should
he leave them, Curundil sheathes his blade, and with a grunt of effort,
lifts the exhausted elleth off her feet and staggers forward with her until
they're closer to the main group, the strain showing on his face. "Elsa.
Come. On." he gasps.

"Nay, lady". Istyarwen shakes her head. "Your Lord soon will need you and
your abilities. I can join the camp alone, as I arrived here. Do not worry
for me, but for Finrod and Curundil too, if you love the lad as I think you
do".

Elsabet grits her teeth. "Curundil, I told you .." she begins warningly,
running forward after him. "This is ridiculous. Set her to her feet once
more and let me take care of it. And draw your sword, you idiot, you're just
a better target, carrying her like that."

Finrod says "As a CW can ask ask if we bend the rules for once and allow
Isty to continue to rp even if we are going into combat? It is all going to
be rp combat anyway. If she doesn't actually pose that she is fighting, but
just cowering or something, would that be ok?"

Once they're back amongst the others, Curundil lets the elleth back down,
and says to Elsabet breathlessly, "Alright, now you can watch her." He draws
his sword, and hastens to find his way to Finrod's side without waiting to
catch his breath.

Again the darkness swirls, and new sounds can be heard: the sharp breathing
of many beasts, and the clank of metal, the tread of many feet upon the
frozen marshland. Where there was silence, now a cacaphony of sound, and the
darkness erupts in a flurry of shapes, twisting towards the hapless group of
elves. Orcs and gaur appearout of the night, and they press closer.

Even as he scans the shapes through the fog, Finrod notices Curundil's
approach and gives the lad a tight smile. "Well, squire," he says. "This
shall be your test. If we both survive this night, then never again shall
any call you a youth." He gives the guard captain a nod over Curundil's head
and orders, "Stay close. Do not attack until they are upon us."

The blood draining from her face, Elsabet's fingers grasp her bow tightly.
However, she cannot both shoot and support the elleth, and she said she'd
look after her. Eyes darting about for a hiding place or shelter of some
kind, she rapidly falls back from the group, the fog and darkness concealing
her form almost immediately. The ragged breathing of the elleth and the
Coiannor's terse words of encouragement can still be heard, faintly, so they
are nearby, still.

Gripping his sword a little more tightly as an outlet for his unease,
Curundil nevertheless manages to give Finrod a brief smile. He takes in a
deep breath, then looks down at his white knuckled hand, and deliberately
adjusts his grip on the hilt, holding it more loosely as he was taught to.

Taragil shouts in dismay as the shadows come alive, staring back across the
intervening space towards Aran Finrod and his scarce companions, and then
casts Istyarwen a desperate look, visibly torn as to what to do. "Lady, stay
here and hide in the grass!" he pleads. "It's too dangerous to make for the
camp now. Please!"

With a final glance over his shoulder the thandir makes firm his
shaky-chosen decision and runs for the Aran and the seething enemy-filled
fog, his sword Nimaglar held low and poised for an upswing - but it shakes
in his hand.

The sounds of Elsabet's constant enouragement fade as she stumbles farther
into the darkness and fog. A woman's shriek rises about the noise for a
moment and is silenced ... to those who know her, it is recognizable as not
belonging to Elsabet. No doubt it was the elleth who accompanied her. She is
lost in the darkness and fog, however, and her fate remains uncertain.

Curundil starts, looking about anxiously when he hears the elleth scream,
even though he knows it's not his cousin's voice. "Elsabet?" he whispers to
himself, "Elsabet, please be safe."

Hoarse houts of glee mingle with the wolfsong as the darkness is shattered
with torchlight, and the reeds of the fen are set aflame by the burning
pitch. Orcs rush in and the gaur as well, like the sudden inrush of a flood
through a breached dam.

Toward the elvenking rush a handful of orcs, no less than six, while a gaur
rushes the elf at his side. Elsewhere in the confusion, a pair of orcs hunt
down another in the small seperated band.

"For Angrod and Aegnor!" Finrod shouts as he springs forward to engage the
foe. The Elven blade swings in a tight arc toward the first of the yrch even
before his battle cry fades.

Curundil is forced to put aside his worry for his cousin when one of the
gaur suddenly leaps for him. With a cry that might be some form of battle
cry or just something more incoherent, he brings his blade up and slashes at
the gaur's head, hoping to stop or at least slow its leaping onslaught.

Taragil pulls up short in his headlong dash to Aran Finrod as a hulking
beast of an orc looms up before him in the gloom, but even as he coils to
spring he hears the low growl of another orc behind him - too close behind.
Shuffling circles in the mud in a vain attempt to keep both in sight, the
squire finally leaps at the first, closest orc with a slightly wild upslash
of Nimaglar, not pausing to aim or hold a poise, but simply trying to beat
the creature out of his way before the other closes on him from behind.

The first orc to attack the elvenking is sliced clean through, but the
secong ad third close upon him, one swinging a mace at the alvenking's head,
while the other lashes with his scimitar at the sword arm in an attempt to
cut it off. They both growl fiercely, swearing gutterally, and their cruel
eyes gleam.

Meanwhile, the gaur laughs to himself at the orcs' inefficiency, and at
their blood-lust to attack the elf-king. All which is well and good, and the
gaur leaps aside from the inexpert blow aimed at his head. Growling softly,
he swipes his right forepaw at the elf's legs, trying to knock him down.

The orc attacked by the Falathrim elf staggers slightly, the leather armour
pierced but not slit entirely. He raises up his shield to bash the elf's
face, while the second orc aims a blow with his scimitar to the back of the
elf's neck.

In the distance, other cries can be heard, a din of howling and shouting,
voices of orcs and wolves and elves mingling in confusion. The direction is
unclear, but the meaning is not: the maincamp has been found and it, too, is
under attack.

Taragil's momentum is still moving him in the direction that his hasty swing
leads - forwards - and as the first orc smashes his shield at the young
Sinda's face, there is little he can do to evade it but turn his head aside.
The shield smacks across Taragil's cheek and nose and sends him staggering
crazily backward with a sharp cry, blood spilling in a rush down the front
of his tunic.

But although Taragil most definitely does not see it that way, the orc's
savage blow has done him a great service indeed - as he reels away the other
orc's scimitar meets empty space rather than the nape of the young quende's
neck. Still, as the squire straightens again it is clear that he is badly
disoriented, and it is more by luck than skill that he keeps his grip on
Nimaglar. For the present, he returns no blow.

Slightly off balance after his blow is all too easily evaded by the swift
moving gaur, Curundil's unarmoured legs are an easy target for the
creature's return attack. The gaur's claws slice into his right leg, drawing
blood and causing stagger forward with a cry of pain. Despite that, he still
manages to aim a weak slash at the gaur's rear end while trying to keep from
falling foward.

No longer does Finrod have time for battle cries as the foes press around
him. He ducks beneath the mace of his first opponent and swings the sword up
to meet the scimitar of the second. Fortunately, it is still early in the
battle and he is not yet winded, so the manuever is not too difficult for
him. As the two blades meet, he jerks his wrist, hoping to disarm the
opponent.

The second orc attacking Finrod does, indeed, drop his sword, but he
counters bu shoving his shield forward, hoping to hit while gaining time to
drag out a long, wicked knife. The other, cursing all the while, shifts to
the elvenking's side, trying to get behind him while lashing out his mace
again at Finrod's shoulder.

The gaur growls softly as his claws sink into soft flesh, the small tearing
sounds like a strange music in his ears. He twists easily away from the
feeble blow to his rear and, snaking his head about, aims a sharp bite at
the weapon-arm of the elf.

The first orc attacking Taragil grunts and laughs as the blow hits home, and
he stabs forward his blade at the chest of the disoriented elf. The other
slashes low with his scimitar, towards the backs of Taragil's legs.

Terandil is fighting on the other side of his king Finrod. Though he does
keep up his shield in defense he is obviously trying to finish his orcish
opponent as fast as he can. He shouts, "Need help, my king?". Aiming the
orc's blow aside he aims a well aimed, as well as a man of his skill can
aim, slash toward the orc's skull.

His right leg giving out beneath him, Curundil slips in the mud, and comes
to a rather hard landing on his knees. This has the unintended side effect
of having the gaur's attack on his sword-arm miss by a hair, going too high
so that the jaws snap shut ominously near to the young edhel's right ear.
Frantically, he shifts his grasp on his sword and stabs up at the gaur's
chest, trying to keep it away from him while he's down.

When his opponent's scimitar flies away, Finrod whirls to face the orc with
the mace. The air sings as the Elven blade sweeps toward his foe's head. But
even as the blow nears the orc, the shield of the second strikes the king's
side. He staggers and gasps, swinging around again. "Help Curundil!" he
gasps in response to Terandil's question. "I cannot reach him!"

With a gasp like a drowning man seeking the water's surface Taragil abandons
all thoughts of parrying and dives desperately to the side as the two orcish
blades plunge in. He hits the ground hard, but the mud is deep enough to
stop his head being rattled too much further, and he rolls clear with only a
light graze across the backs of his calves from the second orc's strike.
Regaining his feet with a back-handed wipe at his bloody nose, the thandir
visibly tries to shake his dizziness and leaps at the orc whose shield is
splattered with his blood, yelling pure incoherent defiance at both the foul
yrch. Her light glinting dim in the encroaching mist, Nimaglar swings in
horizontally for the orc's throat with all the strength that her shouting
wielder can muster.

The blow aimed for the mace-wielding-orc's head reaches his shoulder
instead, piercing it deeply, and the beast howls in pain and rage. He aims a
swift, uncalculated blow at Finrod's head, trading fury and power for
accuracy. The second, pleased with the impact of his shield in Finrod's
side, stabs quickly with his twisted dagger, slicing the blade outward and
then in, near the shield at Finrod's midsection. A third orc closes,
weilding a whip.

The orc attacking Terandil falls, his throat pierced, but a black-coated
gaur bars the way between the elf and his king, growling as he advances, the
shapr-clawed paws digging into the fallen orc.

And the gaur attacking Curundil gives a soft bark as the blade grazes his
chest, the rippling muscles scored under the thick fur. Orange eyes kindle
to fury, and the gaur leaps fully at the fallen elf, great claws raking at
the youngster's chest.

Surpised by the charge of the reeling Taragil, the first orc falls heavily,
his blood spurting from his neck, a paraody of a fountain. And yet the
second yells, taking advantage of the moment, and plunges his own blade at
Taragil's mid-section.

Instead of running to his king or taking the gaur near him, Terandil starts
quickly pacing sidewards toward Curundil. He keeps his shield to defend from
a possible attack from the gaur but his eyes run around the battlefield, as
he tries to avoid any beasts before reaching the fellow elf in trouble.

Trying to twist away from the gaur's attack, Curundil takes the gaur's
assault in his left arm and shoulder rather than his chest. The blow is a
telling one, as the young page wears no armour to keep the gaur's terrible
claws from biting deep into his arm and shoulder. Unable to restrain a cry
of pain, the page pushes down on the mud in an attempt get to his feet so
that he can better defend himself, blood from his wounds mingling freely
with the sludgy mass that passes for ground in the fens.

His grey eyes fixed numbly on the fallen orc, Nimaglar trembling in his
hand, Taragil turns his attention back to the other orc too late despite its
splitting yell - his eyes fix on the creature's hideous face just in time to
see it split in a ferocious grin, and the orcish scimitar buries itself deep
between the squire's lower ribs.

A trailing, ragged cry of agony tears from the Sinda's lips as the blade
drives home, and Taragil pulls sharply back from the orc's stained weapon,
staggering away bent almost double with his arms clutching around the
bleeding rent. Only a few paces clear, his legs fold beneath him and he
falls on his back in the mud, gasping, the vision blurring with pain and
shock before his grey eyes. Though he still grips Nimaglar in a bloody hand,
it is clear he will not raise her nor himself for the rest of the fight ...

The Elven armor deflects the orc's knife, but the shield keeps Finrod from
landing a blow on his opponent. He steps back, even as the mace strikes his
shoulder. Drawing in a hissing breath, he spins to face the mace-wielder,
driving his sword point first toward the orc's chest. The fell light deepens
in his eyes as he watches his folk fall around him and he puts all his anger
into the sword thrust. "Nay!" he says through clenched teeth. "You shall not
prevail!" Almost the words are a chant, burning with the force of his fury.
"You shall not prevail!"

The surviving orc attacking Taragil twists his blade once and then yanks it
free, and then aims a kick at the fallen before disappearing into the
shadows to find other prey, leaving the elf to die in the mud.

In the meantime, the gaur that attacks Curundil waits for him to rise before
leaping again, his great, bloodstained teeth snapping at the young elf's
shoulder.

Another gaur, yet to taste elven-blood, stalks Terandil, his eyes gleaming
yellow in the bloody mist. Suddenly he leaps, his long legs bunching, then
propelling him forwards, and his teeth snap at the elf's weapon-arm.

The mace-weilding orc falls heavily, pierced by the bright elven-blade, yet
the third closes in, swinging his barbed lash at Finrod's legs. The other
orc, taking advantage of the elvenking's distraction, leaps forwards to
retrieve his fallen scimitar.

And all around, voices take up and mock the desperate cry of the elvernking.
--We will prevail... we will prevail...--

The gaur's teeth tear open the armor on Terandil's weapon arm, bringing out
some blood, and Terandil flies backwards by the force of the attack. His
sword flies in an arc a few feet behind him on the ground. Without stopping
on the ground, Terandil rolls on a standing position and quickly jumps
toward his sword.

His attention on his falling foe, Finrod does not notice the whip until it
wraps around his legs. He manages to yank his sword out of the dead orc's
body as he tumbles to the ground. The bite of the lash brings a grimace of
pain to his face, but he kicks at the whip, trying to dislodge it, while he
swings his sword wide above his head to keep his opponents from taking
advantage of his fall.

Before Curundil has a chance to turn and face his opponent, having just
staggered to his feet, he is once again leapt upon and knocked down by the
unrelenting gaur who attacks him. This time, the force of the leap knocks
him flat, causing him to lose his grip on his father's sword, dropping it on
the ground beside him. The gaur's teeth tear into his right shoulder this
time, and the weight of the creature forces the edhel's face into the mud.
The page struggles for air for a while despite his now numerous wounds, then
goes limp.

Warm blood runs amidst the slaver in the dripping maw of the beast and the
taste is sweet. The eyes of this dark beast flame goaded by his lust for the
elf flesh. Thus as the Elf moves to his sword the wolf darts after him, his
back arches and flayels in an almost sepentine movement as gaping jaws of
the wolf lung at the back of the warrior. The gleaming eyes roll back into
the vast dark skull of the beast just as he closes in upon the warrioir

The orcs surround Finrod like a cloud about a mountain peak, not attacking
him in fear of his sword, but not withdrawing, either. A third orc, and a
fourth, draw closer, grinning twisted smiles at the elvenking.

Meanwhile, Duthauring leaps upon the fallen youngling, ready to finish him.
And then he stops, and a leer comes to the bloodstained muzzle. Licking his
lips, his tail wagging in grim amusement, the great gaur lowers his head to
take the elf's cloak in his teeth, attempting to drag him along the muddy
ground.

Terandil had just managed to get to his sword and pick it up and the gaur's
attack comes. Right through the armor, right through the clothes the beast's
teeth go and rip a piece of meat off his back. Again Terandil flies, this
time forward on his chest. Desperately, in bad shock he tries to swing his
sword toward the gaur opponent.

Finally Finrod manages to dislodge the whip around his ankles, but circle of
foes around him is too tight for him to stand. He pushes to a crouch and
sweeps his blade toward the legs of the nearest orc, hoping to cut himself
enough room to break free of the ring and climb to his feet.

Unconscious and still bleeding badly from his wounds, there is little
Curundil can do to avoid being dragged away by Duthauring as the gaur takes
a hold of his cloak and pulls. His empty hands fall limply by his side as
he's taken away from where the other Nargothrondhrim still fight on.

The Gaur leaps at the felled Quende and this serves as both renewed attack
and to carry his leaping body past the keen blade of the elf, which swings
at only air, well past the left flank of the beast. The last lunge from the
wolf brought more sweet blood and his throat is now wetted, and a deep growl
rises. Thus it is no suprise that the body of the wolf falls at the
struggling form. The paws of the beast swirl, bothing seeking grip for
landing and the warriors back for that grip.

The closest orc leaps free of the elvenking's thrust, just barely, bringing
his shield down to ward off the blow. Yet another orc drives his blade
downwards, darting in as the elven-blade sweeps elsewhere, his scimitar
driving downwards towards the shoulder of the sword-arm. The other two orcs
draw closer, but do not attack.

In the darkness, the gaur drags his prize away, into the night, towards the
northwest, where the army of Angband fights to gain the pass of the Ered
Wethrin. And then the mists surround them, and only the darkness and the
mocking laughter remain.

Paws dig in deep in Terandil's flesh. He manages to push himself on his
knees and turn his front toward the gaur before the attack comes. More of
Terandil's blood fly on the battlefield as he flies on his back again with
his stomach is torn open. As he falls, he tries to hit one more weak strike
against the gaur as it passes by.

The thick, impenetrable mists that shroud the marshy waste and black pools
of the Fen of Serech conceal the approach of another band of armed men and
women from the south and west. Led by Barahir the Bold, a large troop of
Dorthonion's soldiers marches hurriedly towards the sharp fighting that has
erupted around the elven king's small band of companions. Though their
leather and mail-clad forms are hidden yet from the sight of the beleaguered
elves, their loud calls and strong voices ring out in challenge to the yrch
who tread upon their lands.

There, amidst these men, walks Barahir's only son. His quick strides bear
him swiftly across the boggy, muddy grounds, and he makes his way gradually
towards the sounds of clashing steel and calls of the struggling yrch and
elves ahead. A great sword he bears in one hand, the heavy blade rested over
his mail-clad right shoulder, and with his gloved free hand he beckons for
his Beorian companions to follow closely behind.

One of those companions is the scout from Ladros, Eril. He hastily pulls the
cover from the head of his axe, and stows it away when he hears the sound of
fighting drawing closer. Walking near the front of the Beorian column, he's
one of the first to spot the combatants ahead, and begins advancing towards
them, axe in hand.

Spattered from the trampled slush of snow and mud, the grim scowl of an Adan
looking weathered beyond his years follows closely behind his Beorian kin.
The cloudy-grey eyes are narrowed in determination, his knuckles paling
around the leather-wrapped handle of his longsword. The heavy footsteps sink
in the hampering swell of bog and fen, yet Gorlim quickens his pace at his
leader's bidding, the scowl setting deeper in the firm-set mouth. A sigh is
released as a grumble and a growl as a warning even as he hears more clearly
the sounds of battle ahead.

The orc blade finds its mark in Finrod's shoulder and he jerks away sharply
from the weapon, blood flowing from the wound. He starts to tumble forward,
but catches himself as he falls and tries to push to his feet, holding the
sword upward in hopes of driving it into the nearest of his foes.

The dark shape of the wolf Kalnargoth slides and moves atop of the fallen
Elf, his neck seems to lurch and sway yet its merely lowers his vast skull
and gaping jaws apon the neck of the Quende, yet a new scent comes to the
nose of the wolf, even over the reek of the fens. His head darts up and his
glowing eyes look out into the gloom still atop the Elf eyes look out.

Terandil weakly pulls his shield, now covered by his own blood, in between
his and the wolf's face. With his sword arm he tries to pull himself
backwards. He coughs thick blood out his mouth, and it drips on his already
blood smirched chest armor. He still grips his sword and stares at the wolf.
Yet no sign of fear can be seen on his noble face.

Sliding in and out of the thick fog comes one among the men of Barahir's
men: Baragund, slain Bregolas' son. A dread look upon him, he is dressed for
war, his is sword brandished at his side as he comes shouting the name,
"Beor! Beor!", with a voice strong and true that rises above the mists;
those about him lifting their voices with his. Making swiftly for the
battle, honing in upon the its bloody centre, Baragund moves amongst
Barahir's men through the swirling pitch with his black hair matted with the
damp against his pale face.

Spotting the wolf Kalnargoth about to put an end to one of the edhel, Eril
tightens his grip on his axe and charges forward at the wolf, yelling a war
cry when he's close enough more to distract the wolf from its victim than
for any other reason. Bringing back his axe, which looks more like a
woodsman's tool than a true battleaxe, he swings his weapon at Kalnargoth
flank in a furious sideways slash.

The three remaining orcs surround Finrod, taunting him, thrusting weapons
inward at him-- a scimitar, a mace, and a thick pike-- never coming too
close, themselves, not unless they have to. And then the pike-weilder grunts
in challenge, and stabs at the elven-king's lower back.

The mist swirls, and then opens once again, and the gaur Durthauring
returns, green eyes scanning the battle.

In the group of Beorians also travels Antyr. The young man walks a number of
paces back from his cousin, Eril, his eyes searching through the dense fog.
At Baragund's call, Antyr raises his own sword in reply to the other's
battlecry, and with an angry yell of his own the young man begins to rush
forward with the others around him towards the heart of the battle.

Stepping back the wolf now sees new shapes moving amidst the fogs and wheels
about swiftly, pivoting upon the shield of the forgotten Quende, bloody
spittle flies from his mouth and splashes the elf as he turns. This came not
soon enough for one of the faster Edain charges weilding an axe and
screaming loud the cries of war. Whirling again, still atop the shield he
leaps to the right of the rushing man, the axe flew close and the breath of
its bladfe stirred even the fur apon his left flank. Yet th leap takes him
past the stroke and beyond the man and Kalnargoth begins a long loping arc
about this new combatant.

As the name of Beor rings through the heavy air, a look of wonder fills
Finrod's eyes. He draws in a breath and springs to his feet with renewed
vigor, even as the pike strikes him from behind. The elven armor holds firm,
although the force of the thrust hurls him forward a pace. "Finarfin!" he
cries loudly in response as he brings his blade around toward the
pike-weilding orc. "Beor and the House of Finarfin! We fight together!"

And along with the call of Baragund, Gorlim's voice is raised as well.
Unearthly and fey it sounds, shifting and corrupted as it weaves among the
other calls. The grey eyes widen with the shout, and raising the long, blade
which glints greedily against the dim light, Gorlim joins the fray of elf
and man and cursed beast, his new-honed blade seeking black blood.

Amidst the ranks of the scattered Beorian soldiers who rush forth from the
south and east, seemingly emerging from the very mists themselves, comes
Barahir's son. His blue-tinged eyes narrow in the gloom of the Fens, and he
searches over the countless vague forms of struggling yrch and elves ahead.
The great sword's heavy blade dips at his side, and he hefts the weapon
easily in both hands while at last springing forth against the Gaur and yrch
that surround the elven king. His booted feet are quick to cover the soft,
marshy grounds as he rushes headlong towards the yrch who have surrounded
Finrod. "Beor!" He calls out in both answer to the king, and in clear
challenge to his foes, while he lifts his great sword's heavy blade readily
overhead.

Terandil shivers and still crawls backwards. He abandons the sword throwing
it to his side and tries to hold his innarts in him by holding his shield
hand on his stomach. He gurgles out more blood and tries to crawl further
away from the main battle.

--Beor....--

The name sounds, and is met with laughter, for too many of that house have
fallen for the enemy to yet have great fear at the call. For they are many,
and the elf-host pitifully few. Yet Duthauring's eyes narrow, and he turns
and lopes towards the new threat, hoping to meet it before it can aid the
elvenking.

The pike-weilding orc screams and falls, mortally wounded, yet from nearby
the weilder of the flail laughs. Rahkhash howls and lets his flail lash
forwards once more, this time aimed at Finrod's head.

Eril spins to face the gaur as the beast leaps past him. Shifting his grip
on the haft of his axe, he takes a few careful steps to his right, keeping
his eyes carefully on his opponent's actions before stepping forward to
attack again, this time with a low swing at the gaur's front leg.

Baragund descends into the frey, pushing through the fog and crossing over
the snowy ground stained red and black, the colours of death. Almost to the
spot at which Finrod lies surrounded by the enemy, he hears the answering
call from the King and lifts up his voice again, "Beor! Nom!", joining the
two names together as challenge to hell's hosts, "Beor!", again, he cries,
the voice of the King beckoning him and the others to his side. The mists
separate, giving a vision of Finrod beset by an orch, its weapon flashing
upward to strike him down, yet the noise of battle swells and before the
mists can close upon the sight, Baragund steps through and lends his sword
to guard the King.

But the arrival of the Edain has given new spirit to Nargothrond's
beleaguered king. He ducks beneath the flail, keeping his wounded shoulder
away from his foe and swings his sword in a backhanded stroke toward the
other orc.

As the dark beast lopes around the human, his brawny shoulders aloow his
huge head to bob as he walks, a blood reddened tongue lolls from the mouth
of the beast as he begins to move in towards the Adan. Yet even as the wolf
leaps to bite at the head of the human his sharp axe flies in and smite the
shin of the beast. The edge of the blade dealy but a glance, yet also a
shock, thus the wolf carries pas t the human and begins to circle again,
seeking to gain measure of the warrior. A deep growl rises from the throat
of the beast and it seems to split and melt in the air almost as many wolves
matched his roar, yet it is just his.

Following his cousin as he moves to the aid of the edhel, Antyr joins Eril
in battling the Guar. With his teeth clenched and his brow furrowed in
concentration, dark ponytail flying out behind him, the young Adan guardsman
brings his longsword to bear upon the creature before him, leading its blade
in a whistling diagonal arc towards the guar's flank as the beast circles
his cousin.

The flail-weilding orc, Rahkhash, falls with a shriek, but more orcs close
in around Finrod, circling him yet again, trying to drive a wedge between
him and his allies.

Duthauring lopes easily now across the blood-slicked ground, charging at the
companions of Barahir, his green eyes scanning for a likely opponent.

His arm straining to guide the weight and wielding of the sword again and
again, Gorlim's grim expression is a cast of fixed determination. The silver
blade is bathed in the blackened blood of his enemies, and no few spatters
of the fell beasts' blood cover his clothes and face. Mist plays upon shadow
in the dreary wasteland, and the tinge of scarlet mingles in the boggy
marshes and rings the hem of the Beorian's cloak which skims along the
ground. With another cry of "Beor!" Gorlim follows fast on the heels of
Barahir's son, the red-rimmed eyes set upon those foul invaders who encircle
the Aran Finrod.

The fog swirls and shifts, parting at times to reveal more of the twisted,
orchish creatures that have come against Finrod and his companions, and
hiding yet countless others in the thick pale mists. Barahir's band is much
smaller in number, though each of those men and women throw themselves
headlong into the violent struggle, their calls ringing out above the harsh
clashing of steel.

The Beorian lord's son lashes out with his blade, working a path towards
where Finrod and his few remaining fellows stand. His blue-tinged eyes flash
with each wide stroke of the heavy weapon as he springs and weaves slowly
over the wet, muddy grounds, each step bringing him closer to the elven
king.

Sensing that the gaur is still trying to get his measure rather than
attacking all out, Eril seems relieved when his cousin comes to his aid in
this battle. He feints a blow at the gaur while Antyr attacks, then follows
it up with a quick chop at the Gaur's left flank, trying to keep his weapon
between himself and the wolf's sharp teeth as he does so.

Kalnargoth feels the approach of another combatant and his movement carries
himpast the sword of this new foe, yet as the wolf darts past him he slides
past the axe of the first foe. The fell eyes flash all the brighter for
this. Both foes are behind him and with one ripple of muscles beneath his
dark fur, his head face where his tail had been but a heartbeat before and
his jaws gape. To his right stand the axe wielder, with his blood upon its
blade. Thus Kalnargoth flies at the first, his hind legs pound into the soft
earth proppeling him forward at the standing figure, his gaping jaws seeking
to clasp about the skull of the human.

Taking a hasty step backwards, the Beorian scout manages to raise his axe
just in time to ward off Kalnargoth's sudden attack. Even braced against the
attack, the scout's feet still slide backwards in the mud from the force of
it. Twisting his axe in his hand, Eril attempts to turn his parry into a new
attack, and bring the blade of the axe down at the wolf's head before it can
attack him again.

As the guar reverses his position and lunges towards Eril, Antyr raises his
sword again, its blade glinting dully in the flat light of the fog-filled
air, and pivots to attack the creature again, this time bringing his sword
down and foreward in a vertical cut towards the side of the beast in an
attempt to aid his cousin.

The gaur Duthauring circles the edain, but does not attack, merely watching.
His eyes gleam balefully in the darkness, and he lets out a long howl,
summoning more of the pack to the hunt. And then he disappears into the
shadows, vainshing on an errand of his own.

The orc-host still surges about the band of elves, but they have been thrown
into confusion by the arrival of the edain. Many turn to flee, and others
blow on brazen horns to summon reinforcements.

Surrounding Finrod, the orcs fall back, both at his onslaught and that of
the companions of Barahir, and they begin to back away.

Barahir and his men arrive at the side of the King, Baragund and brother
Belegund amongst them, surrounding him with the wall of weapons that glint
dull and dark upon the grey air. "My lord!", cries one of them men over the
din, "We must get you safely away!", he says, the tall length of his spear
raised up and outward to the surrounding black host of yrch, others
snatching them up from the ground so that they bristle thickly against the
foe.

There is grim smile on Finrod's face as his enemies fall back temporarily,
though his smile fades when he sees his fallen folk around him. "Thank you,
my friends. My army is to the south. If we can win through to there, we
should be saved. Have you those among you who can pick up our wounded? I
would not abandon them to the enemy."

As the swift axe of the human scout falls in the path of the wolf it blacks
his jaws, yet cuts the beast not. Yet another blade does, not deeply, yet it
rakes even through the wolfs thick fur and brings forth dark blood and deep
guttarl yelp. Leaping to the side of the scout, the heavy axe falls only
into air, again the wolf swerves its body and changes its course with
serpentine motion. The jaws of the wolf seek the soft belly of the sword
weilder and sweet vengance for his cowardly attack.

For what the Edain lack in numbers, perhaps, they lack not in valor. Again
and again their arms are raised against the fell hosts of Morgoth, and in
that rigid and unyielding might, Gorlim is among those who gird a defense
about the Aran. The bleak line of his brow casts a shadow over the dark grey
of his eyes, and as Finrod speaks, the man of Beor turns to those who stand
behind him and barks an order to hoist and carry the wounded to safety.

Trying to distract the wolf as it turns sinuously to attack his cousin, Eril
yells at it wordlessly again, and lifts his axe to take a blow at the gaur's
tail. Behind him, one of his fellow edain stoops to pick up the gravely
wounded Terandil and bears him to safety so he is not left behind in the
confusion of battle.

And again and again the host of Morgoth surge against the might of the
Beorians, driving at them, and then falling back, unable yet to overwhelm
them. And yet horns blow in answer to their calls, and wolves howl, as
reinforcements approach from the north across the devastated plains, to
crush this band of elves and men once and for all.

The men of Beor encircle the King, the broad heads of their spears jabbing
out to wound any that would dare come forward. Slowly they move southward,
pushed by the hosts coming reaching out of the north, inching their way to
cut through the battle, suffering great loss as they go. Every man that
falls is replaced by another of the strong and steadfast kin of the Beor,
fighting fiercly to bring the King to safety.

Seeing the guar turn towards him and lunge, seeking to repay Antyr for the
damage his blade has done, the young man tries to step backwards to bring
enough distance between himself and the animal to avoid the attack, but he
is unable to, for at his back, hardly a pace behind is another of the adan
fighters, struggling with his own combatant. Antyr runs into the man, only
to have the powerful jaws of the guar tear into his heavy leather armour,
through to the skin beneath, causing Antyr to cry out in pain and anger. The
young Adan tightens his stomach muscles in reflex, quickly turning to the
side and taking a step to get free of the guar.

The son of Finarfin joins his blade to the spears of those around him,
trying to hold back the rising tide. Around him the remnant of his folk help
the Edain gather the wounded, carefully picking up Taragil of Falas who had
been overcome early in the battle. Suddenly Finrod stoops to pick up a sword
lying on the ground. "Curundil!" he whispers. He scans the surroundings
quickly, looking for his squire, but finds only blood and torn cloth.
"Farewell, my friend," he adds softly. "You shall not be forgotten." He
slides the weapon into his belt and turns back to the fighting, anger
growing in his eyes once more.

And free the man becomes, and as an axe stirs the fur apon his flank he
whirls again and seex the scout. Another twist of the sinous body and a
ripple of muscles bring the snarly wolf face to face with the man. Another
powerful thrust from the hind legs thrusts the wolf forward at the scout as
before, again with gaping jaws seeking the skull of the scout to crush. The
green flaming eyes of the wolf roll again back into its skull as it hurtles
at the ADan.

The orcs are not daunted by the ring of spears and swords, and they attack
over and over, replacing each orc with another. And yet the elvenking and
his small party move ever southwards, pursued inch by inch by the relentless
forces of Angband.

Eril lets out a cry as the wolf Kalnargoth leaps at his head too quickly for
him to evade. The snapping jaws of the wolf tear into the Adan's left ear,
taking it clean off in and leaving a long bloody gash along the side of his
head and down his neck. Bringing his left hand up to where his ear used to
be, Eril stumbles backwards, swinging his axe in front of him at the gaur's
right side with what almost seems more like a defensive gesture than a
serious attack.

Steadying himself with his sword, Antyr takes a few painful breaths before
straightening up and turning once again to where his cousin fights the guar.
Fresh blood, his own, now stains the torn front of Antyr's torn leather
armour and tunic, but the young Adan grits his teeth, willing himself above
the sharp pain of his wounds and raising his sword infront of him at the
ready, begins to move in to aid his cousin again.

Baragund lunges forward with the spear he has taken up from the ground,
fallen from the hands of the slain, while his own sword he has returned to
the sheathe at his side. Slow step after step, each one hard won by the
courageous and hearty of folk of the Beor, that give haven to the King with
their lives. Fog swirls about them, hiding them from the rest of the battle
at times, though the sounds of it are eerily clear as men and beast die
around them. Bregolas' sons fight aside each other, their strength and
fierceness as matched as their features, grey eyes glittering with anger.

The sword wielder momentarily stunned, the blood of the scout in his throat
now and even the flesh of him. Lust for the kill fills the black heart of
the wolf as he falls back to the earth a sniping dive takes him past the
falling axe and arching his body the wolf sinks low and seeks to find the
calf of the scout. The yellow fangs over the wolf run read as its throat
convulses and forces down the torn flesh of the axe wielder.

The few Nargothrondhrim who still stand fight beside their secondborn
cousins with a fury terrible to behold. But none can match the power and
rage of their king. The light of Valinor burns in his eyes as he hacks at
the enemy, avenging his fallen companions with each stroke. Tall and fell he
seems, shining with a golden light through the darkness, and his wrath at
the enemy grows as the Edain perish to help him win free.

With a cry, Eril loses his balance and falls to the ground as the gaur's
jaws close around his left calf, thwarting his attempts at a fighting
retreat together with the other Edain. He tries desperately to pull free,
swinging his axe at the creature's head in an effort to make it release him.

Having finally regained his wits, Antyr sets upon the guar again as it
lunges low, avoiding Eril's axe and seeking to sink its teeth into his
cousin's leg. The Adan guardsman rushes towards the flank of the beast as it
does so, screaming his cousin's name, raising his sword and then swinging it
down towards the guar's flank as the creature dives towards his cousin.

No few men of Beor have fallen this day, and in the midst of the fray, as
his sword is lowered temporarily, Gorlim helps one of his comrades to his
feet in the blood-mixed marsh. "Get ye away from here!" he insists to the
wounded man, jerking his head in the direction of safetly. "We shall get the
Aran from this place soon enough. Off wi' ye!" Drawing in a rattling breath,
half-growled, Gorlim lumbers forward to engage the enemy once again,
shouting a cry to Baragund as he joins the Beorian's side.

The axe blow falls again, the wolf feeling the movement of the scout lets
his jwas go loose so he can whirl from the smiting blow, lepaing past the
axe blow he darts also past the sword, through chance or invention it is
unclear. Yet the wolf finds himself with the sword wielder just to the right
of his bloody snout. A dart of the beasts thick neck brings his bloody fangs
towards the mid section of the sword wielder again.

Baragund edges down the battlefield, his face grim and stern, terrible and
pale as he wins with the others, the King and his own men fighting alongside
that of Barahir's. The ground beneath has been churned and wrecked by the
trample of feet, making it treacherous footing, but their progress is slow
and they stand firm agains the enemy while around them the battle rages on.
"Beor!", sounds the cries over and over, the very word a weapon and enough
to swell every one of the First House to fight all the more fiercely.

As he attempts to regain his balance from his rather wild blow, Antyr is
once again unable to avoid the jaws of the guar as the find hold in the
flesh of his stomach once again, tearing deeper into muscle. The young Adan
jerks backwards in reflex, crying out in pain, his feet slipping on the
muddy ground, causing him to fall into the muck, dropping his sword and
pushing the creature away from him, blood now flowing freely from his
wounded stomach.

Seeing his cousin in as dire a state as himself, Eril struggles to regain
his footing, though his leg wound pretty much precludes him from doing more
than getting to his feet unsteadily and limping. Pulling himself up with a
nearby plant, he cries out to his cousin, "Antyr, get away!" He lifts his
axe, ready to go to his cousin's rescue if necessary, futile though it may
be.

The small host of elves and men fights on, falling back further and further
southwards. Yet it is not in the designs of Morgoth to follow so far, not
now, not yet, and a great horncall is sounded, followed by the howling of
wolfsong.

--Pull back... pull back...--

Slowly, like the slacking tide, the onslaught of the enemy grows less, and
the way south clears.

And suddenly the fog begins to lessen as the small band of Eldar and Edain
reach the southern edge of the fen. Dark shapes of Elven warriors appear in
the distance. They are resting in the remains of the Nargothrond encampment,
battle torn and weary, and their numbers are far fewer than those who rode
north at the king's side. The enemy has retreated for now, leaving them to
tend the wounded, but they are still watchful and the sentries at the edge
of the camp give a great shout as they spot the approaching men and elves.

Seeing a break in the shadows of the enemy's numbers, Gorlim calls those
near him apace. "There!" he cries, and points to the swirling mists, which
yield the clearing way before them. "Hasten, men of Beor, and Friends all!"
he calls to elf and man alike. Though he stays behind, until the last have
few of his band remain, the grim set of his mouth set tensely as he gazes to
the field of battle yet, his blackblood-stained sword at the ready as
before.

The wind pulls at the fog, thinning it so that Baragund can see that their
small band is coming clear of the battle, the heartening sight of the elven
camp lying not far ahead. Rousing to the calls around him and those from the
camp before them, he presses harder, the point of his spear thrusting out
again and again to keep the enemy at bay. And almost they are there, winning
free of the black host that has itself begun to draw back.

Clutching his bleeding front, Antyr rolls onto his side and struggles into a
kneeling position. The young man moves his hand from his wounds and reaches
for his sword. His hand tightening about the grip of his weapon, Antyr
slowly rises to his feet, using his blade for support. Turning a little
unsteadily, Antyr looks to his cousin and nods, searching out a route of
escape from the jaws and claws of the Guar.

Clenching the hilt of her sword, Emeldir crouchs as she helps to pull and
drag the wounded from the battlefield. Her eyes catch sight of one last
wounded, though it seems as if the dread beasts have forgotten, one of the
were-beasts lingers near this one. Using her heavy longsword as a shield of
sorts, Emeldir edges closer to the wounded edain, jabbing with the tip to
prevent the beast from attacking again. "Be gone from here, foul beast!" she
hisses, grabbing ahold of the man's shoulder to drag him away.

When he sees Antyr getting away from the Gaur, Eril turns to follow, limping
as quickly as he can so as not to be left behind as the rest of the group
retreats towards the elven encampment.

Then Kalnargoth cuts himself and with much blood in his throat turns at the
call, his duty now to the pack and to move. Another comes too, a female but
she holds herself in the way of true warrior thus the fight has lost its
sport. A leap and a bound carry him past the pair of Beorians. The black
shape darts through the mist and mirk and towards the North and his kin.

The mist gathers over the marshland, swirling, thickening, filling once more
with hideous whisperings, invitations to battle once again. And then the
mocking laughter fades, and the hosts of Morgoth vanish into the mists,
leaving behind the bloodstained mud as testament to their fury.

Istyarwen sighs in relief when she looks from afar the fog leaving the fen
and going back again to the north. A new day begins and despite the sunrise
barely illumines the land, it is comforting to feel the sun once more. But
glancing to the field of battle, the view is terrible, with the quendi and
edain fallen, and she cannot avoid the tears running on her cheeks. So much
dead, so much tears. . .again.

Through the mists a solitary figure wends its way towards the camp, well
after the retreat has effectively finished. As it approaches the camp, it
becomes recognizeable as Elsabet, the coiannor who was lost in the fog early
in the battle, almost before it had begun. Catching sight of the gore and
ruin of the field, she pales visibly, but runs to the camp. She is dirty and
tired, but unharmed. The elleth enters the camp and begins searching, almost
frantically, through the ranks of soldiers and people there.

As he straggles into the camp, limping from his injury, Eril goes to seek
out his cousin, Antyr. He continues to hold one hand up to where his left
ear used to be, since blood is still flowing from that wound, though the
caked mud on his leg has staunched the other.

Sheathing his sword, Antyr reaches again to hold his wounded stomach with
his bloody, mud caked gloved hand. The young man makes his way unsteadily
into the camp, having been propelled in its direction by Emeldir.

No tears fall from Finrod's face as he surveys the remains of his camp and
the few survivors from the Fen. A king cannot afford such a luxury in front
of his people; he must remain strong and proud, despite defeat and heavy
losses. When he sees Elsabet, however, he very nearly breaks down. He lowers
his head and closes his eyes, his knuckles whitening against the hilt of his
sword. Only for a moment does he allow himself such weakness, however. Then
he draws in a breath and raises his eyes once more. "Elsabet," he calls
softly. "Come here. I would speak with you for a moment."

Istyarwen looks to Elsabet and follows her inside the field. Avoiding
carefully the bodies of the dead, she moves and approaches to the coiannor.
"Curundil?" she whispers to her. "Is he. . .do you think that. . .?". Her
voice sounds warmly but worried for the lad. "I will help you to find him
among all this horror, lady. Surely he in safety!". But despite she tries to
comfort the elleth, her own remembrances of the war gives short hope to her
words. When she hears Finrod, she stays a few paces far.

Elsabet turns, her eyes brightening softly. The king will know what happened
to her cousin... the news may not be good, but at least it will be news. She
nods silently at Istyarwen and turns to the king, managing to stammer out a
hesitant, "Yes, my Lord?"

Baragund stumbles a step, the point of his spear nearly driving itself into
the ground, but Belegund is at his side to reach with a hand and keep him
aright. Together the two brothers stride toward the camp now, the sounds of
battle fading behind them as the two armies retreat from each other. Ahead
of them is the King and while weary to the bone, Baragund stamps the butt of
his spear upon the ground as he walks, chanting grimly and resonantly with
his kinsmen, "Beor! Beor! Beor!", till they reach the camp with the King
safely delivered.

Eril slides his axe back into his belt, too tired and preoccupied to clean
it off for the moment. He staggers over to join Antyr and Emeldir, and asks
his cousin, "Antyr, how sorely wounded are you? Lady Emeldir, thank you for
coming to our aid."

As soon as they are within the relative safety of the makeshift camp,
Emeldir immediately begins tending the wounded, seeing first to the last one
she helped to bring in. She kneels at his side, only now recognizing Antyr,
though she concentrates on seeing to his wounds first, cleaning away the mud
and blood caked upon him. At Eril's question, she glances in his direction,
quelling her shock at the extent of his injuries. "Antyr.. Eril...ye both
need tending to," she observes quietly, before gently applying salve to
Antyr's wounds, then bandaging them with strips of gauze.

Sheathing his sword, Finrod pulls another blade out of his belt. From the
workmanship on the hilt, it is clearly a weapon of a master craftsman. "I
would give you this, Elsabet. It is the sword that Curundil bore into
battle. He fought valiantly at my side but was felled by a guar of the
enemy. The sword should go to Celvir to bring to the lad's father when we
arrive in Nargothrond. I do not know where Celvir is in the midst of this
chaos, but I have not the time to seek him out. I must speak with Barahir
and his companions to see if there is a way we can press through the enemy
and reach Mithrim. My brothers are dead, so I fear that the High King may
also have fallen, but I am loathe to abandon the north entirely until we are
certain."

Turning to his cousin as he approaches, questioning him about his own
wounds, Antyr shrugs his shoulders, shaking his head. "I am alive cousin,
that's all I care about" He tries to offer his cousin a smile, but it is
quickly replaced with a gasp and a wince as Emeldir begins to tend to the
young Adan's wounded stomach.

Eril sits down near where Emeldir works, attempting to wash the mud off his
own wounds while Emeldir aids his cousin. At one point, his hand strays up
to his ear, and he gasps and exclaims, "That thrice accursed thing bit my
ear off!"

When she hears the news of Finrod about the lad, Istyarwen pales deeply and
bows crushed with horror thinking in the react of Celvir. "My" she whispers
"He will become mad. . .first to know the death of Aegnor and Angrod. . .and
now, this. It will be too much for him, I know". She begins to sob again and
leaves the field running away, in pain and sorrow. "I should to see him. .
.and to tell him. . .Aye, I should to do it". And with this thoughts she
begins to search Celvir.

Elsabet recognizes the sword the moment Finrod pulls it out, and her eyes
fill with tears. However, she maintains enough control of herself to nod
quietly and reach out her hands for the sword. "I will tell Celvir," she
affirms brokenly, reaching up a hand to quickly wipe her eyes. There is no
time for tears right now. After she informs Celvir there will be much work
for the healers.

No look of triumph is imparted through Gorlim's gaze, and the firm-set
grimace is maintained as he looks about the camp at the fallen--the wounded
and the dead. His tall form, weighted by some burden beyond the measure of
his frame, trods heavily upon the snow-slushed soil, and he brings the back
of his hand to swipe the sweat-sodden hair from his eyes. The grey and
red-rimmed eyes widening, he blinks back the sting of salt and heaves a
great sigh as he comes upon Emeldir. "Aye, Lady," he says--his gruff voice
softened at the sight of blood and injury as she tends to the wounded. "Is
there aught I may do for ye in yer labors here?"

Turning her attentions now to Eril, Emeldir is barely able to stifle a gasp
as her eyes fall upon what is left of his ear. She holds back her emotions,
however, as she begins treating the young man, carefully wiping away blood
and tissue, sewing up what she can before gently applying soothing ointment
and gauze bandages. Emeldir glance up at Gorlim as he approachs, smiling a
bit, "Ye can help make bandages, milord," she suggests softly.

"Thank you, milady," says Eril gratefully as Emeldir starts to tend to what
remains of his ear and also the bite on his leg. He grimaces when she begins
cleaning the wounds, however, and clenches his fist as he tries to stay
still and silent while she sews up his injuries.

The stony grey gaze narrows as the Beorian looks upon the gore of Eril's
wounds; the only reaction a flinching of the muscles in his jaw. "I will see
to that, Lady," Gorlim answers Emeldir, looking as if he could shred the
very enemy with his bare hands at the moment. Stalking away towards the
healer's tent, the follower of Barahir and Beren retreats for the moment to
assist how he may in the bloody battle's aftermath.

Carefully adjusting his tunic and armour over his bandaged stomach, Antyr
watches as Emeldir works upon Eril's wounded ear, an odd frown upon his
face. "That was a close call, that one, cousin" Antyr says in reference to
the attack that caused the damage to Eril's ear. "Where was your helm?"
Antyr asks of his kin.

Eril mumbles unhappily, "Fell off," he says to Antyr, "I'm just not used to
wearing one. It fits badly, and keeps dropping forward and obscuring my
vision. So...how do I look? Lopsided?"

For a few moments, Finrod is silent, watching after the young healer as she
leaves with the sword. Then he walks away to the place where the Edain are
gathered around the healers. Barahir is not immediately in sight and Emeldir
is busy so he pauses and surveys those present, searching for the proper
person to address.

"Aye, Lopsided would be a good way of describing it" Antyr says with a
smirk, then more seriously, "You should see about getting a properly fitting
helm then, its of no use to you if it falls of yer head." Antyr moves to sit
beside his cousin "I wonder what Aldawin will think of this?" he asks.

Eril reaches up to touch the bandage around his head, and says, "Well, do
they make lopsided helms?" He grins briefly, then admits, "I really have no
idea what Aldawin will make of this. But I know I'll be glad to see her
again."

Antyr nods in agreement "Glad indeed. I hope her own journey was a safe
one." he says to Eril. The young adan then turns and glances out over the
bustling camp, filled with the wounded and weary.
