The Battle of Sudden Flame

Inner Courtyard

A wide grassy ring surrounding the impenetrable tower inside its massive
wall. In the curve of the same, there is a thick door of heavy stone like
the rest of the wall, leading to the rougher, more wild outside. The grass
here is green, seemingly fair and ageless, and the air is thin, causing
those not used to such a place to move slowly or breath much. There is not
much landscaping, one might note, as if what arts had rendered this area
verdant were then left powerless to make it beautiful.

WEATHER ALERT: The temperature is in the 40's.

The Highlands of Dorthonion are shrouded in a deep, unnatural darkness. The
early morning sun's pale light is blotted out and blocked entirely by the
thick, rolling clouds of ashy smoke that hang heavily overhead. The snow and
tree-blanketed slopes which face the vast plains of the Ard-Galen to the
north are blackened and burned, and all the lands around Aegnor's fortress
lie beneath a thick blanket of still-warm, grey ash. Thick, billowing
columns of smoke still stream skywards from the north, where the lush
pineforests that caught fire days ago still burn, blocking all sight in that
direction.

>From beyond Aegnor's gates arrives a weary, ash-stained Beorian soldier. He
gasps for breath, shoulders heaving after an obviously lengthy run, before
managing to cry out in a raspy, alarmed voice: "To arms! The yrch approach
from the north!"

A creaking, groaning issues forth from the Gate. A small rickety wagon
rumbles into view. Pots, rags, and other knick knacks hang precariously on
the wagon. Pulling this run down cart is an old grey ass, one ear erect and
twitching while the other flops down as if in an ageless boredom. Sitting on
top of the wagon holding the reigns and a whip is an older looking skinny
man. Wrapped in a discolored cloak, the man glares about with dark beady
eyes, "Damn them. Keeping me here like this. Saying it ain't safe. Aint safe
to go? Bah, look at the mess their in now. Damn whipper snappers. Think they
know everything."

The yard surrounding Aegnor's tall stone tower bustles already with frenzied
activity, as Beorian men and women rush to repair the damages done by the
previous days' tremors and fires. Yet, the arriving soldier's call stirs
greater tension among those edain and elves that stay here. The call to arms
is echoed almost feverishly from mouth to mouth, and most drop their
immediate tasks to rush off for weaponry and armour. A column of several
dozen mail-clad elven soldiers rush forth from the tower's entryway,
marching hurriedly towards the gates under the blue and silver flag of their
lord, Aegnor. "Clear the gates!" Yells one of the Beorian sergeants to the
old man who sits upon his wagon, "The yrch approach! Clear the gates!"

Already girt for war, Finnabair stands within the blackened yard speaking
amongst a few grim faced scouts while about them the fort moves at a
deliberate pace, hurried now that the calls from the gates are raised.
Troubled looks northward are common, up into the skies marred by the burning
of the highlands and plains beyond. Finnabair's goes there now, though her's
shows sharp and keen, glittering darkly even. Standing there, calmly amid
the rush of people, securing her own and adjusting the leather armour she
wears, she glances up and squints through the filter of ash, seeing the old
man and his wagon lumber through the gates, the elven warriors quick on his
heels. A last word and the scouts with Finnabair move toward the stairs,
climbing them to the walls with their greatbows, dozens of arrows at their
reach.

Turning at the shout, the old man yanks on his reigns, the donkey coming to
a halt, "Woah, Betsy. Stop!" As the wagon shudders to a halt just out side
of the gates the man stands up and cracks his whip over the head, "Watch
your tongue! I shall not take any more of your disrespect. Since I've been
in this dump, I've gotten nothing but trouble. Kept against my will, my
goods not even looked at. Kept from leaving until now, now of all times. But
what really erks me is that my dog is missing. One of you hoodlum soldiers
probably ate her. She was a good bitch. Best friend I've had. Faithful dog,
not like any of the soldiers here. Why, I'm lucky that noone's tried to eat
my donkey. Though I've seen a few hungery eyes staring at Betsy." Sitting
back down the old man cracks his whip over the head of his donkey and the
wagon slowly begins to move forward.

Beckoned to her feet and out of the tower's secured walls by the increasing
commotion, it is not long before Aldawin is a part of the confusion as she
is jostled by citizen and soldier alike in the courtyard. The cry of "yrch"
fairly sends a shudder through her, and she grips the pommel of her sword in
reflex. Her left hand clasps her healers' satchel, which is filled to its
brim with as many herbs and remedies as she could gather from the stores of
the tower. The clatter and creak of a wagon causes the healer to make way
for the grumbling man and travel-worn donkey, and the grey eyes scan about
the yard for a familiar face amongst the throng.

Kalnargoth comes through the large wooden door from the outside into the
Courtyard.

Kalnargoth has arrived.

Even as the old man's crickety wagon begins to move forward, away from the
gaping gates, the column of mail-clad, elvish soldiers rush through the
opening and to the ash-covered wilds outside. A scattered group of
lightly-armed Beorian scouts follow quickly behind Aegnor's warriors,
disappearing through the gate and down the winding path leading towards the
northern pass.

>From the tower's entranceway emerges Erathil, his bulky body clad in a
guardsman's surcoat and a coat of heavy, stiffened leather armour. The adan
officer strides hurriedly outside, followed by a handful of similarly-garbed
and armed men, before pausing to call out to the surrounding crowds. "The
yrch have been discovered approaching from the north!" He speaks out in a
loud, clear voice, "And we have little time to prepare. Yet, meet them on
the slopes we must, or else face being trapped without escape within these
walls."

As soldiers swarm past the rocking wagon the old man glances about worridly.
Reaching out he grabs hold of an ancient looking staff and sets it beside
him on his seat. Licking his lips he pulls his cloak closer about himself as
they continue on their way, a ship through a sea of guards rushing by.

Having readied herself, Finnabair approaches the gate, coming alongside
Blurend's wagon as he cracks the whip over the ass' ears, "Have you armour
as well, Blurend?", she queries, glancing into the flat of his cluttered
wain as he grabs for the staff. Men rush by them, hurrying for the slopes
beyond the gate and Finnabair's pace quickens to keep with them, Erathil's
short speech half-heard in the din of noise. "You might see to donning it!",
she calls back over her shoulder.

The tower's courtyard fills gradually with armed men and elves, many of whom
rush hurriedly through the gaping gateways and out towards the burning
slopes to the north. Those that remain gather into larger units as they
nervously await their commanders' orders. All the while, the posted sentries
along the tower's battlements search fearfully across the ash-covered
grounds, and though the thick columns of black smoke impede their vision,
many look to the hidden Ard-Galen for the coming enemy.

Within moments, Erathil himself calls out to the soldiers around him. The
Beorian officer's own guard marches off in an orderly column, past the old
man's wagon and out into the wilds. Erathil himself walks among them, his
pale eyes narrowed and strained in the unnatural dimmness.

The morning sun's pale light is swallowed by the thick, rolling clouds of
black ash which hang heavily over the northern highlands of Dorthonion and
the charred remains of what once was the Ard-Galen. The pine-clad slopes of
Dorthonion's highlands still burn in places, shedding great, billowing
columns of black smoke that rise up to the heavens and obscure the view of
the devastated plains to the north. Here, amidst the ash-covered forests'
remains, are gathered a small host of desperate Beorian defenders. Mail-clad
elven soldiers have come to aid from Aegnor's nearby tower, and form a
bristling wall of spears which blocks the only path leading up the slope.

Close to the foremost of the Beorian's ranks stands Erathil, his bulky frame
clad in the customary armour jacket and surcoat of Dorthonion's guardsmen.
The adan officer's heavy blade rests naked in his grip, its keen tip
supported against the cold ground at his feet.

Finnabair's small band of warriors skirt through the burning trees that lie
on either side of the pass, dim shapes carrying longbows and masks, swift
footed and sure. The charge of pending battle is heavy in the air and the
bitter grit of ash lies over everything, thicker than snow but easily
stirred by the march of feet over it. Appearing from out of the trees now,
joining the rest of the host, Finnabair and hers halt and ready themselves
while the ranger moves on ahead to come and stand beside Erathil a moment,
her gaze cast northward into the black curtain, issuing not a word.

A heavy silence hangs over the gathered ranks of the Beorian defenders, as
they wait upon the highest point on the rocky path, all eyes set fearfully
upon the obscuring mass of black, ashy smoke that blocks vision to the
north. Aegnor's elven spearmen are joined soon by scattered ranks of
archers, who take up positions alongside and behind the shieldwall that
blocks the central path.

Erathil's features darken with a nervous scowl as he scans the burning
forests just to the north. His pale eyes turn to Finnabair briefly as she
comes to stand by his side, and his gloved hands tighten around the pommel
of the heavy sword in his grip. "We know not yet their numbers." He utters
quietly to the young ranger, "The fires obscure them. Our scouts reported
seeing only their spies. I fear this may be a ruse only, while they march on
Rivil or Ladros."

Her breath cast forward in misty cloud before her, Aldawin stays close to
the ranks of warriors. She is here not primarily to fight--thought is seems
that all who value their lives or Dothonion soil will be required to take up
weapons in defense. Indeed, the healer grimaces at the sight of young men,
yet lads, who hold weapons almost unwieldy for them. Shouldering her
satchel, her right palm upon the pommel of her sword, the Beorian healer
stays well within the safety of those better armed and trained, swallowing
back growing trepidation as ash falls sparse and silent like a gentle rain
around them.

Smoke. It hangs in the air even as a thin veil, making the world seem
shrouded and unreal. Twisted trees yet smoulder, and all seems dead, still.
Yet movement can be seen from the north, a darkness in the smoke, like
darkling waves on an unlit shore.

The hosts of Morgoth stream through the twisted pathways amidst the ruins of
the land, slower than the molten fire that flowed earlier, yet no less
deadly. Heedless they come, caring little for secrecy, and their weapons
gleam strangely in the smoky half-light. Amidst them are darker figures,
Gaurhoth of Sauron. Their long howls blend with the tramp of iron-shod feet,
a call to hunt, to battle.

Finnabair shakes her head in answer, "The burning of the plains was no ruse.
This is not one either.", she says, eyes still scanning through the smoke
and ash and reaching for the bow strapped to her back. Quietly setting it to
the black ground and stringing it taunt, she is about to say more when she
suddenly looks up and squints, straining her ears to something ahead in the
dim veil, "Do you hear?", she asks.

Ash billows up with each step as Ka'dar moves forward through the smokey
haze at the head of a group of orchs, all wearing the symbol of a white hand
on their chests, positioned to the east flank of the column. Nostrils
flaring he looks upon the wreckage of the forest with a wicked smile.

The thick tension and silence that hangs over the gathered Beorian host as
surely as the smoke and ashes about them is shattered quite abruptly by the
call of several sharp-eyed elven archers. Several of the armour-clad edain
and elves raise weapons, gesturing fearfully towards the twisted shapes that
seemingly move through the smoky darkness and the blackened forests' remains
further down the pass.

"They approach, Finnabair." Mutters Erathil, his tone suddenly unsure. The
Beorian officer's pale eyes narrow, and he strains to make out the hidden
foe ahead even as he calls out for the surrounding guardsmen to be wary.
Aegnor's elven host remains eerily silent, their bristling wall of spears
and shields steady, their great bows raised with arrows knocked and readied.

Amidst the many jostling Yrch all about marches a twisted brute. Vacant eyes
stare South and a mace swings in his apeish arms. The short legs of the
beast plod on and on as they have for hours. Yet now the beast sniffs the
air and saliva runs in its mouth, as its ranks breath hisses in and out of
its mouth with the effort.

>From around the hillsides a few scouts return with reports. Among them a
small orc, his body low to the ground and using all for limbs to run, makes
his way to a large regiment of orcs. Seeking a larger one in mail, ShNar-gRu
slithers to march along side him and give his report. "Few creATUrse outSIDe
their ACCUrssed wallss," he hisses. "Not goinG TO be a QUIck baTTle." The
commanding orc grunts his reponse and while he barks other commands to
couriers, ShNar leaves, going back to his normal position among the ranks.

Among the orcen host a particular figure is given a wide berth. The shadow
surrounding the fiery creature fluctuates in satisfaction, a shadow which
matches the ash in the sky and the burnt husks of the few remaining trees.
Withing the shadow a sudden glint reveals a mighty battle axe in one hand
and in the other a vicious whip of fire, the favoured weapon of the Balrogs.

The scent of burning is thick upon the air, a thick, piney stench here in
the outskirts of what was a forest. and yet, even in the muddled breeze
comes another scent, growing stronger. Man-scent. Elf-scent. Among the
far-flung gaurhoth, trotting easily in point, Seregurth lifts her head, her
nostrils flaring at the new odor. Fear, sweat, they hang pungent about the
place, and she wags her tail, eager for the taste of hot blood. Her teeth
bare as she shifts into an easy lope, howling now to alert the pack to the
presence of their prey.

Moving alongside the warriors, Aldawin catches sight at last of faces
familiar. Striding alongside an outer flanking of armed men, she approaches
Erathil and Finnabair now. And while her mouth is set firmly to the task,
there is vague uncertainty in her eyes as she sees the hosts of Morgoth in
their approach. She gives the two a wordless greeting and looks out again
past Aegnor's line. "How many are there?" she breathes, yet in truth she
does not expect an answer.

>From his vantage point high upon the pass, amidst the gathered ranks of
Beorian soldiers who hold the right flank of the path, Erathil surveys the
burning woods below, and the countless twisted creatures that seem to
approach from beyond. "All hold!" He calls out to those surrounding him,
even as he lifts the heavy sword's blade and rests it over his right
shoulder, "They shall come to us." The adan officer turns, his brow arching
with surprise at the unexpected approach of the young healer, Aldawin. "We
know not, lass." He replies, a dark frown creasing his brow. "Though I would
advise that ye stay away from the fighting. Your talents shall be needed
afterwards, I fear."

Finnabair's nimble slide run along the smooth wood of the longbow and her
eyes run over its flowing design a moment, looking up when Aldawin joins
them. "Yet keep your weapon ready at your side.", she adds to Erathil's
answer, turning now as the first of the dreadful host reveals itself from
out of the swirling ash.

"Aye, 'tis my intent, surely, m'lord," Aldawin answers steadily. But her
glance outward at the blackened fields and approaching enemy is telling of
her doubt in the matter. She swallows, nodding. "I will stay towards the
back. For as long as I may," she adds quietly. Her gaze upon the Lieutenant
is searching for a moment and there is a brief hesitance. Yet with one final
nod given to Finnabair as well, she quickly turns on her heel and starts for
the rear of the assembled soldiers, and greater safety.

"Firm up" snarls Ka'dar at the Warriors of the Hand that fall in behind him.
Lifting his eyes upwards along the path he grunts at the sight of the
assembled humans, particularily focused on the elves and grunts to the men,
"We eat elf tonight." which prompts a rouckas cry from the warriors. Picking
up speed as the charge begins, the orchs begin to chant in their guttural
tounge.

Erathil casts Aldawin a glance of warning even as she turns to depart,
though his pale eyes are drawn once more towards the blackened, charred
forests to the north as some of the men nearby call out in alarm. The
Beorian officer's pale eyes narrow determinedly, and he takes a short step
forward while calling to the men around him. "Steady, lads!" He shouts,
"Hold fast, and they'll break as always!" His left hand reaches out for
Finnabair's shoulder, and he steps closer to the young ranger while
whispering quietly to her. "If this does not go well, take who you may back
to the fortress, and call for evacuation. There shall be little escape if
they encircle the tower." Without another word Erathil shoves forward
through his men, coming to stand readily amidst the front-most ranks. His
sword is raised readily before him, and he watches through slitted eyes as
the orchish warriors led by Ka'dar rush upslope to meet his own.

The apeish Orch, Tarkut now sees what earlier caught his nose, gleaming
spears, doubtless attach to Elves with gleaming eyes and their pets. The
loping stride of the beast lifts a little as he starts to jostle past the
folk near him, he moves nearer and nearer to the front moving many of the
smaller Yrch afore him from his path, with rough blows and pushes. Soon his
nose is as far forward as any of his brethren, yet he holds his pace here,
and his blood shot eyes glint.

The movements of the adan scum have not gone unnoticed. Orc scouts have long
sinced confirmed their location, as though it were hard to find them in the
barren wasteland that was once Dorthonion. The host of Angband grinds to a
halt momentarily as the leaders determine their tactics. Frustrated by these
bunglings of lesser intellects Valkane rases a shadowy arm, whip lashing
fire rainning down his arm and back. A vast roar rises over the host, a cry
which could come from no mortal mouth. At that cry the order is given and
the rush is on, orcs start forward charging towards their feeble prey.

With a roar the Warriors of the Hand charge forwards on the east side of the
Orchish horde. Ka'dar leads the way, his large axe and shield swinging with
his arms as he grunts under the pace up the hill, growling to himself about
higher ground.

And with the cry, the gaurhoth answer with howls of their own, sweeping
forwards up the slope, nipping at the heels of any too slow to get out of
their way. The air is filled with a deep chorus of howls and yells from the
orc-host, a din that travels far. Seregurth licks her teeth in anticipation
even as she charges forwards, eager for battle.

Retreating her way to the back of the regiment of warriors, Aldawin meets
the glances of those she passes. It seems a hard thing, for what faces shall
she meet again in her capacity as a healer? Soon, she casts her gaze
downwards, steeling her thoughts to what must be done as her hand grips the
sword's handle at her side. There can be no luxury of doubt, she decides,
and finding her place again amongst the brave Beorian fighters, she awaits.

The silent elven archers raise their great bows in almost unison, arrows
knocked and drawn, though held patiently until the charging yrch have come
within reach. The dull, roaring dim of the twisted creatures is interrupted
briefly by the -snap- of the archers' bowstrings, and a deadly cloud of
iron-tipped darts is showered quite suddenly upon the foremost of the
charging orchish warriors.

The Beorian guardsmen hold steady still, unmoving and in orderly ranks,
though the younger, less-experienced men seem to waver in fear at the sight
of the surging black hoarde.

Finnabair nods wordlessly to Erathil's command and then turns and steps back
to her own small band, setting them to order behind the joined spears and
swords of elf and man. Pointing out along the line of Angband's host as it
draws to a halt, she joins them in training her arrows into the ranks of
foes as they charge toward them, holding them steady and waiting with
praticed patience before loosing them..

Several of the Warriors of the Hand stumble and fall under the deadly hail
of of arrows. Several, the smarter of the group, raise their shields to help
ward off the rain of death. Ka'dar grunts as an arrow punctures through the
top of his shield, remaining stuck in place as the first trophy of battle.
Onward he moves with his warriors behind him.

The Orchish beast Tarkut, lifts his pace to running. His crude mail jangles
as he begins to belt up the hill. Animal grunts tear fromh is lungs as he
heaves his beastly frame to the top of the hill. Many arrows rain and many
of the Yrch near him fall under the storm, if not killed by the arrows, the
hundreds of feet roll over there vile bodies and utterly break them. Tarkuts
mace is lifted high in the air as the a roar leaves the coarse throat of the
orch. Now he and the near ranks are but a score of paces from the Ranks of
spears.

The harsh clash of steel rings out deafeningly as the first of the orchish
warriors led by Ka'dar smash violently into Erathil's guardsmen, where they
hold their ground upon the right flank of the beleaguered Beorian defenders.
The adan officer braces himself against the coming onslaught, and his weapon
rises readily overhead to aim blows at any of the dark creatures who come
within reach.

The Beorian soldiers hold steady at first, and Erathil seeks a foe among the
surging black sea. His pale eyes focus upon the approaching ka'dar, a huge,
imposing figure who towers seemingly over most of its allies. With a low
grunt, the raven-haired commander slides a towards the great beast and aims
a horizontal sweep of his heavy longsword out, directly for Ka'dar's head.

The elven host which holds the center of the sloped, rocky pass holds
steadily and evenly, their keen spears held forward, aimed towards the
surging mass of twisted, armoured creatures. Another hail of deadly arrows
follows the first, and soon another, as Aegnor's archers seek to at least
slow down the foe's advance.

A grunt of satifaction raises from the mouths of the blood thirsty Warriors
of the Hand as they finally clash with the Beorian Soldiers. The sound is
quickly lost in the sound of metal against metal and the first cries of the
wounded or dying. Ka'dar puffs mightily as he attempts to gain his breath,
paying the price for his heavy armor. Almost immediatly he is forced to
crouch under the swing of a skill fully aimed longsword, the length of steal
passing harmlessly above his head. Swinging his mace in a wide arc in front
of him and level with the others chest, he attempts to force his assialant
back while he catches his breath.

Erathil's lips peel back with a scowl as the first of his swings is avoided
by the large orchish warrior. The heavy weapon's momentum throws him a step
forward over the unsteady, ash-covered ground, and though he attempts to
twist away from Ka'dar's followup attack, the swung mace lands a glancing
strike along his right side. The Beorian officer sucks in a pained breath,
his teeth clenched and eyes widening in surprise as he reaches up to clasp
at his suddenly sore side. Without hesitation or doubt, however, he lunges
another quick step forward upon his booted right foot. The Beorian-made
longsword is this time thrust forward, its sharp tip aimed directly for the
great orch warrior's armoured chest.

Now the Yrch all bout Takrut strike, the is an almight clang of steal and a
huge ripple among the many bodies of Yrch. Many fall in this first wave as
the Elven spears smite at the wild Yrch. Tarkut himself is brushed aside by
the shaft of a tall elven spear and the tide of Yrch forces him to the side
of the group. He moves now swiftly in the little free space he has gained
and runs on to a group of Beorian soldiers, where many of there folk seem to
stand with them also. Mace raised high the Orch screams wildy as many of his
kin swirl behind him.

Finnabair frees several arrows from her bow, watching them arc upwards and
then plummet into the ranks of the yrch. The air grows thick with their
efforts, joined to the elven archers not far from them and volley after
volley of quarrels hiss thick through the air, though no small number is
returned from out of the hosts of Angband. Warriors fall from the line and
are quickly replaced by others so that it remains whole and steady.

Staying close to the rear flanking of soldiers, Aldawin's hand grips the
handle of her sword tightly, yet the blade is sheathed securely still. As
the clash of man and elf against orch ensues, Aldawin keeps her gaze to the
battle in grim determination and stays close to the defending warriors as
Erathil as admonished.

The smoke-choked mountain pass bears witness to a sharp confrontation
between Lord Aegnor's elven defenders, their Beorian allies, and a great
host of black, twisted creatures who have emerged from the smouldering,
charred remains of the forests upon the slopes just to the north. A
bristling wall of elven spears holds the center of the pass itself,
supported upon both sides by the firm ranks of the Beorian guardsmen who
desperately defend their homelands. Archers, both elven and edain, fire
swift volleys of deadly darts upon the surging mass of yrch and gaur from
behind the cover of the shield wall and the concealing trees along both
sides of the pass.

Ka'dar lifts his shield into position after his defensive swing, but not
quick enough to ward off the quick attack by the man in front of him. The
blade point careens off the side of the heavy metal plate of his chest piece
and cuts a wide gash across his right side, under his arm. Grunting in pain,
Ka'dar pushes himself forwards trying to close the gap between the two while
swinging his mace in a short arc downwards towards the left knee of his
opponent.

Arrows whistle through the air, some hitting the ground near to Seregurth,
one nearly grazing her flank. She growls and her ears flatten at the high,
whistling sound of them, but soon she is too close to the foe for their
arrows to do any good. She looks about, searching for orey, her eyes
lighting on a female human, weilding one of those horrid bows. She growls
and trots forwards, her muscles tensing as she prepares to attack.

Erathil's pale eyes glitter satisfiedly as he feels the sharp point of his
thrusting blade find purchase against the great orch's armoured chest. The
Beorian officer braces himself against the other's counter, and lowers
himself to a half-crouch even as Ka'dar advances suddenly against him. His
heavy blade lifts readily overhead, and he draws a quick step back, away
from the incoming mace blow. The difficult, sloped ground betrays him once
more, however, and the huge orch's expertly swung mace catches him solidly
just below his left knee. A sharp cry escapes the adan officer, and he
stumbles down to that same knee, his left hand already reaching out to grasp
at the painful wound. In the same instance, however, Erathil's blade is
brought swiftly down in an arching blow, its keen edge aimed for Ka'dar's
weapon arm.

Finnabair draws to the full and releases arrows in ordered repition,
ignoring the dying cries of men about her as she concentrates wholely upon
the enemy before her. The bulky figure of the Gaur lopes between the hosts
of yrch, coming toward her and Finnabair lowers the point of her next arrow
to set it squarely upon the beast as the distance between them quickly
shortens. A breath drawn in and she looses the quarrel, sparing little time
before dropping the longbow and reaching for the axe at her side.

Throwing his longbow aside as he runs out of arrows, Eadric pulls out his
axe and runs forward into the fray. Eventually, he finds an opening and
attempts to come to Erathil's aid by aiming a low swing at Ka'dar's left
leg.

The blackness of the charred lands is stained anew by the black blood of
Yrch, trampled and arrowshot out of them. Many fall to spear and arrowsof
foes, and the rampaging of their own kind. Yet it is a cheap coin from a
deep purse. There is no end to the rolling black tide, the vapours hide it,
yet the eyes of any would strain to see it.

The group of Yrch that rolled from the main host now fight with the
Beorians, the group are trying to drive the group in two. at the head mace
swinging wildly is the apeish Tarkut. Fangs runs with saliva and blood of
red and black spatters his face.

>From the human's bow an arrow whistles, and Seregurth shakes her head at
the irritationg sound. The arrow lodges in her right shoulder, burning, and
the gaur howls in anger, biting at the shaft, snapping it. And then she
growls, slowed only slightly, and lunges forwards at the woman's legs,
biting at them in an attempt to break the bone.

A scarf covering the lower half of her face, Emeldir can scarcely believe
her eyes at the evil tableau in the pass. These creatures are even more foul
and dark than she had imagined, as her eyes scan the area, and their number
is quite daunting. Nonetheless, her sword is drawn as she too takes her
place among those fighting desparately for Dorthonion.

Ka'dar lifts his shield to deflect the arching blow just as his mace
connects with an unsatifying lack of cruching bone sounds. Jostled by an
orch fighting near his shield falls slightly out of place allowing the
other's longsword to pass by and cut a thin line through the chain links and
into the bicep of his weapon arm. Grunting as the blade digs in, his arm is
knocked off of a potential retaliation swing and he is forced to step back
bashing out with his shield at the other. His attention focused on his
oppotent in front of him, he does not notice the long charge of another, the
man's axe hitting him a glancing blow in the leg just as he steps back,
doing little more then brusing the large orch.

Erathil still kneels on his injured left leg, and he grasps at his badly
bruised kneecap tightly with his gloved left hand. The Beorian officer's
pale eyes narrow, his jaw clenched painfully as he looks upon the massive
orchish warrior directly before him. Unable to regain his footing for now,
he braces for the next attack, the heavy longsword's blade held crossed
before him and ready. "Hold!" He shouts out desperately, as he ventures a
quick glance to either side and notes that the beleaguered Beorian defenders
slowly give way, inch by inch, against the sheer mass of twisted creatures
that assault them. Erathil's attention is drawn once more to Ka'dar, and to
the young adan who has come to his side, and though he can not move from the
pain in his knee, he holds his ground and awaits the great orch's next move.

The arrow sucessful and the bow discarded, Finnabair's hand slips down to
grasp at the haft of her axe, drawing it up into her grasp while the other
hand unsnaps the small shield at her other hip. All the while her grey eyes
are locked upon the Gaur, avoiding its eyes and focusing upon its deadly maw
and claws as it looms upon her. As it leaps, she drops into a crouch and
sends out her shield to block its snapping jaw and the force of them meeting
is enough to damage the edge of the shield, allowing the beast to slip past
the defense and scratch her arm deeply. Yet even as the left arm defends,
the right arm attacks, her axe sweeping out to the side striking toward the
great, hoary muzzle of the wolf.

If she could close her ears and shield her eyes from the horrors of the
fight, Aldawin would, but harder still is not having a base from which to
tend the wounded. As the battle is yet young, it is too early to stop and do
so--and dangerous as well, for swiftly she keeps apace with the march
against the yrch, and heavy are the blows that ring amidst the shouts on all
sides.

His footing uncertain on the slippery ground, Eadric fumbles slightly with
his axe as he attempts to bring it back for another strike at the great orch
attacking Erathil. Paying no mind to the rest of his line, he lets out a
wild cry as he swings his axe in another somewhat poorly aimed blow at
Ka'dar's left chest, trying to take advantage of his opponent's distraction.

The axe misses its mark, for the gaur, unhappy with her first bite, leaps
away and pivots for another attack. Yet she holds, seeking the woman's face,
her eyes. "It is futile," murmurs the gaur, her eyes gleaming brightly. "Why
fight and prolong your death?" She steps closer, but does not attack, though
she is poised and ready.

Ka'dar shifts his position so he can face both of his attackers, one too
either side, his booted feet digging into the ashy dirt for a firm grip on
the slope. His simple shift of position is enough to draw himself out of
range of the newcomers wild swing. Looking between the two indecisively
Ka'dar tests the defences of the newcomer with an overhand arc towards the
others right shoulder, while shifting his shield to protect himself from the
potential onslaught of Erathil.

The lumbering Orch Tarkut drives in hard forcing past a Few Beorian
soldiers, the swirling rat folk behind him flow into them and metal rings
all about. With this group a female stands, the slavering mouth of the Orch
twists into a smile and shriek rises from the rotten lungs of the beast. The
right arms of the Orch rises and swirls in the air, the mace rains down and
arcs at the females left arm. The blood spattered face of the beast holds to
blood shot eyes which roll maddly in the skull of the beast.

Venturing a glance in Erathil's direction at his cry, Emeldir's brow furrows
as she too now notices the lines of both elven and adan being slowly pushed
back. She returns her attentions to task, aiming the tip of her sword at the
underbelly of the orch in front of her, her cloak swinging open to reveal
the protective chainmail armour covering her.

Within the orchish lines the sound of war continues. The sparks of metal on
metal; the groan of metal on flesh. The ring of mail flows freely, mixed
with the cries of the now deceased. Within these lines, some of the best
warriors die, and others pray for survival.

Within the orcish lines is a figure wearing black. The robed figure has not
joined the battle yet, though having a rather large scimitar by his side.
The orch is near the back of the group, looking into the onslaught of
fighters.

Erathil spits out a soft curse, his pale eyes widening as the young
soldier's swung axe is so easily avoided by the huge orchish warrior. With a
low, pained gasp, he struggles to his feet despite his injured left knee,
and stumbles a step towards his foe. The Beorian officer cries out in
warning even as Eadric is struck by Ka'dar's solid blow, and his right hand
tightens readily about the pommel of the heavy sword that rests crossed
before him. With a desperate, half-staggered lunge, he advances against the
twisted creature and lashes out with the weapon. The adan-made blade sweeps
out in a back-handed horizontal arch, its keen edged aimed directly for
Ka'dar's helmeted head.

Finnabair's axeblade crosses in the empty air before her, the Gaur having
stepped safely beyond its path where it holds and begins to speak familiar
words of dread and doom which the ranger deigns not to answer. Taking a step
back herself, she makes a fey figure in the midst of the furious battle, a
grey pall of ash having dusted her though sweat and now blood from her arm
mingle together. Not a foolish fighter, Finnabair makes not move and holds
her ground, her eye hard upon the massive wolf, watching and judging her
enemy.

Eadric has just enough time to widen his eyes in surprise as the huge orch
unexpectedly swings at him, but not nearly enough time to react. The mace
slams into his right shoulder with a crushing blow, glancing upwards to
knock him soundly in the side of the head as well. The momentum of the blow
knocks the inexperienced scout right to the ground, leaving him looking
rather stunned, with blood apparently flowing out of one ear and his axe on
the ground beside him.

Growling softly, Seregurth nods, re-evaluating the strength of her prey.
Perhaps she will listen more willingly when she is weary... The gaur's
muscles bunch under her sooty coat, and she springs forward, digging into
the scorched ground, her jaws open wide. She aims her powerful jaws at the
woman's weapon-arm, snapping her teeth.

Her attention solely upon keeping with the lessening numbers of her kin,
Aldawin is taken by surprise as one of the demonic host singles her out and
makes a swift attack. It is the cry of the fell creature that draws the
healer's attention away, and at the glint of a mace in the dim light causes
her to turn sharply in avoidance of the blow. In the same movement, she
draws her weapon from its scabbard and makes a hurried swing of the short
blade in return, aimed for

Tarkut's left shoulder--desperate and perhaps a bit poorly executed.

Ka'dar grunts in satisfaction as his mace connects solidly with the newer
opponent, his large metal shield coming up slightly at the same time to
protect his head from the longsword of the other, the blade chiping off some
of the black and white paint covering its surface. Noting Eadric has falling
back he ignores him for the present and follows through with the momentum of
his shifting shield with a wide arc towards Erathil's left side.

Finnabair's keen eyes see the gaur gather its strength, the muscles bunching
dangerously at its shoulders and she is well prepared when it leaps toward
her, pointed fangs glinting in the dim light of the blackened day. Her own
body moves fluid and supple, a steadying step forward and the axe swings
down behind her and then up and beyond the Gaur's deadly snap, to be brought
back down again toward its glistening, wet snout, while her shield she draws
in close to guard her body.

The Warriors of the Hand continue to fight on savagely against the Beorian
Soldiers, those falling quickly being stepped over by another coming from
behind putting a constant upwards preasure upon the ranks of the humans. The
ash, being considerably stired up by the shifting mass of feet begins to
move about like light snow in a soft breeze.

The axe swings down, clipping the gaur even as she leaps away, cutting a
furrow across her muzzls. She growls sharply, shaking her head, and wheels
back towards the woman, her claws ripping deep gouges into the earth. And it
is with those same claws she attacks now, leaping forward towards the
woman's chest, her front claws raking at the armor.

As the mace sails and hits naught the orch wheels and rises his right arm
again. Yet the short sword of the maiden bangs into the shoulder of the
Orch, a grunt rises from his lungs then a shriek of fury. the mail the beast
wears stops the flesh being torn yet a sniping blow it was. The swirling
mace comes down again, much as before arcing at the healers middle on her
right side.

Erathil's wide strike throws the already-injured officer forward and
off-balance, and he curses angrily as the swung blade of his weapon is
deflected by the great orch's upraised shield. The Beorian guardsman
staggers down to his badly bruised left knee once again, and he grits his
teeth at the sharp, unbearable pain that shoots up his leg even as he half
turns to follow his foe's swift movements. The heavy blade rises in the
adan's hand, and he attempts to deflect the uncoming blow even while
twisting his armoured body away from it. The heavy orchish weapon's momentum
throws aside the adan's blade easily before landing a blow against Erathil's
unhelmeted head. The solid shot sends the officer off his feet and sprawling
to the ground, where he attempts to rise to his hands and knees briefly,
before falling limply, face first, into the ash.

Spotting a human near the front of the enemy lines, the orc in black slowly
begins to move towards it. Making his way near the front of the clashing
sides he pauses, staring at Emeldir. A hand rises, slowly removing the hood
from his head. The figure beneath the hood stares at the adan, intently
before raising his sword, lunging towards the figure and slashing hard,
hopfully to take her unexpected.

Emeldir's eyes meet the black orbs of the beast as the curved blade swings
downwards towards her, and she swivels just out of it's path. Her jaw set,
she hefts her sword with both hands as she makes aim at the beast, the blade
slashing towards the belly.

As Eadric watches Erathil fall to the ground, it's as if his eyes are
suddenly opened to the sight of all the other adan who are also falling in
battle around him. He grabs frantically for his axe, only to realize that
his right arm will not obey him. Seizing it unsteadily in his left instead,
he lurches to his feet, almost losing his balance as he does so. The world
may be spinning wildly about him, but currently, its center is Ka'dar.

Though the mail-clad elven spearmen who hold the center of the rocky,
ash-covered path still stand, they are forced back slowly by the seemingly
endless mass of twisted orchish warriors that rush in wave, after wave
against their wall of spears. The Beorian guardsmen that defend their flanks
are also driven steadily back, and the pass' right flank seems already in a
state of disarray. The beleaguered edain defenders have lost much ground
where Erathil has fallen, and the lines here seem upon the very verge of
breaking.

Finnabair nods stoically to herself, well satisfied to see the blade of her
axe blooded in the battle against an old foe. Already she is stepping aside
as the beast cries in anger and grips the earth to leap at her again. its
sharp claws now the weapon it tries to wield upon her, but too slow to catch
her before she has removed herself from their threat. Aside it, she draws
back the blade again, aiming it for the wide, furry flank of the black
animal, quick as its momentum carries it beyond her.

The swords blade finds itself deep into the uprotected belly. Blood
immediatly rushes out, deep black fluid, flowing like a small creek. Looking
down on the wound, the prophet nearly chokes at the damage. Looking towards
his opponent, the eyes of the orc go weak, as the pain radiates through his
body. A face of pain overcomes the orc, and with the little strength he has
left, attempts to slash at the flank of the human.

Barely recovered from her own hurried blow, Aldawin is hardly ready for the
following attack by Tarkut. And even though she makes a hurried step
backwards, the blow connects squarely with her right ribcage driving her
back yet another steps and forcing the air from her lungs. Fortunately, the
leather armor has taken the brunt of the blow, yet already the bruising can
be felt. Uttering a growl of her own, Aldawin tightens her grip about the
sword's handle and grits her teeth as she shuffles a step forwards and makes
a quick thrust towards the orch's right shoulder.

The blade once more finds its mark, and the she-gaur growls, her eyes
gleaming like embers now. And yet she does not dart away this time, but
pivoys on her long legs, turning her head to snap at the woman's weapon-arm
once more.

Ka'dar cackles with glee as Erathil falls under his mighty mace, his
attention shifting from the fallen man to the other opponent quickly as he
stumbles to his feet. In a long stride he closes the short distance, his
mace beginning a wide arc towards the others left side even as he starts to
move.

Her jaw twitching at the intense battle, Emeldir exhales a soft grunt as her
sword hits home, slicing open the belly of the beast, weakening him so that
his next pass towards her with the curved scimitar is easily escaped as she
turns away. Swiveling once more, she swings her blade up from beneath,
aiming at his mid-section once more, hoping perhaps to finish him off,
especially as she glances around for Erathil, no longer seeing him on the
field of battle.

Erathil's fallen form lies limp and motionless upon the sloping, rocky
ground of the pass. His surcoat has lost all semblance of its former
colours, and is stained a deep, dark grey by the ashes that drift and float
so heavily in the air all across the pass. Dorthonion's vastly outnumbered
guardsmen are pushed steadily back here, and the ranks gathered at the right
flank have almost been broken by the overwhelming assault of Ka'dar's
orchish warriors. Erathil's fallen figure is left behind by the Beorian
warriors, most of whom can do little but struggle desperately to avoid
sharing their commander's fate. The officer's heavy swordblade lies
uselessly by his side, its leather-bound hilt gripped lightly between his
numbed fingers. His broad shoulders heave lightly one last time, as the
last, rattling breath leaves his bloodied, ash-covered mouth. The iron-shod
boots of the advancing orchish host make quick work of the fallen man,
trampling down and burying him in the grey ashes of Dorthonion's highland
pass.

The tide of black still sweeps in and it advances, slowly, yet the folk of
Dorthonion are being forced back. The end of this host can still not be
marked for the reeking vapours that cloud the air The Yrch fall as flies
before the spears, but still more flood in and the black beast of Sauron run
hither and thither slaughtering all they can. The ground trodden beneath now
is a muddied puddle of blood and ash, and the reak of it rises in the still
burning air.

As the Mace of the creature falls hard apon the side of the female a roar
rises, lower than animal in tone. The shriek rolls in the air but is quickly
lost amid the battle din. Amid this scream of pleasure the swift blade licks
back at the beast. Below a flaling mace blow it flies, the arm of beast
moving is caught lower down and a keen edge pares the flaking flesh of the
beast wide open. Black blood gushes fourth and the shriek changes, fury fear
and pain mingle in this base noise. The blow cuts not deep yet deep enough
to slow the right arm, so the long apeish arm lifts up high and swings down
at the females skull, a clawed fist aiming to pound her ckull in.

The sword hits the orc hard. This time, he falls to the ground black blood
flowing freely from both wounds. Mangeled flesh distorts the flow of the
black fluid, and allows a insight into the stomach of the orch. The face of
the orch goes into total pain when several other orc's, similarly dressed in
black robes, run up to the orc and remove him from the field of battle, the
trail of dark blood following the body as it is dragged away.

Eadric attempts to raise his axe to ward off Ka'dar's deadly blow, but the
gesture is too weak and too slow. The orch's blow smashes straight into his
side with a sickening crunch of breaking bone, and Eadric collapses
face-first to the ground, his axe still clutched uselessly in his left hand.
His blood begins to mingle with the ashes and mud of his homeland as the
yrch advance all around where he has fallen, right at the side of his
commander.

Ka'dar grunts in satisfaction as his opponent falls beneath his mace. Giving
the body a last kick in the side, he shifts attention and moves forwards
through the ranks to engage one of the defenders, bashing at him savagely
while his attention is focused on another Orch.

Finnabair feels the blade cut through the pelt of the Gaur, again seeing it
painted with its blood as she draws it back to her once more. The quickness
of the wolf is hard to meet and as it turns upon its hind legs it nips at
her left arm, gouging it beneath the first long mark it made before she can
get away. Like the she-wolf, Finnabair growls, shoving her shield out toward
it to beat it back from her, then scurrying back from it over the sloping
ground of the highland, where she notices now that the hosts of Dorthonion
are drawing back up toward the fort.

The Warriors of the Hand surge forward as the their leader rejoins the front
line, a might cry raises up from the ranks as they slowly gain more and more
ground up the slope, leaving the bodies of dead and dying, both Adan and
Orch alike, laying in the shifting ash behind them.

Yet the shield does not daunt the wolf, not now that the blood is tasted on
her tongue. Not now that the gaurhoth, the orcs, sweep like waves up the
slope. She growls once more, her eyes kindling, and she seeks to catch and
hold the woman's gaze. Yet that is nigh impossible as the woman scurries
away, and so Seregurth lunges once more at her leags, snapping hr jaws,
trying to fell her.

Expecting the blow of a mace from the orch Tarkut, Aldawin is taken by
surprise when the clawed fist of the beast is brought against her instead of
the blunt weapon. Her sword held wide, the healer jerks her head away to
avoid the full hit of brute's left fist and feels the faintest of a glancing
blow, yet the sharp claws graze the right side of her head, drawing an angry
scratch from just above her right eye at the temple halfway down her cheek.
Grimacing in anger and pain, Aldawin jerks her short sword upwards in a
swift arc to catch the orch's fisted left arm 'before he can draw it away.

Finnabair's retreat is too slow to keep her from the Gaur, who swiftly
chases after her with its snapping jaws. Its jaws embrace her arm, crunching
the bone beneath and the ranger cries out in suffering pain, nearly
staggering in her attempt to free herself out from under it. Her weapon is
still free to defend her, and she uses her close proximity to try and
desparately beat it off with the flat side of the blade.

The Orch catches his breath as the pain dull in his right forearm. The
lolling arm is lifted high aloft and the mace is swung down hard again. Its
many barbed head is whirled towards the gut of the female. As the mace
swings down, pain shoots again through the arm of the beast yet this time
his left. The reddened eyes of the orch look down to see the arm near hacked
off. Mere tendons hold the arm from falling, such was the keeness of the
blade and it struck the wretched arm cleanly and bold. The red eyes of the
orch roll and a horrid scream gargles in his thorat.

Crunch. The bones snap in Seregurth's jaws and blood pours down her throat.
Her tail wags at the taste, as the scent fills her nostrils. Near-madness
wakes in her, and she tries to keep her hold, her jaws clenching despite the
heavy blows of the axe-blade, that make her head spin, blurring her vision.
She growls redlexively, her jaws opening, and then snapping shut once more

Ka'dar continues to urge the Warriors of the Hand forward and upward on the
east side of the main column, assisting an Orch here and there by attacking
their opponets from behind or from the side, or knocking down Orchs not
pulling their weight and just getting in the way.

Her blade finding home once more, the yrch goes down before Emeldir, who
pauses only long enough to wipe the blood-blackened blade off on the hem of
her cloak before swiftly turning to see where she might help now. She sees
the guar beast bearing down on Finnabair, fangs glistening as she snaps them
ferociously at the Ranger, and hurries towards the confrontation, pointing
the tip of her longsword at the guar.

Finnabair drops the shield as shooting pain is delivered up her arm, the
Gaur releasing her from its grip only to crush down again upon muscle and
bone. Her feet shuffle over the ground as she tries to drag herself out of
the clutch, the arm now numb and useless. Focusing her mind upon fighting
the beast off her, her axe rises and falls hard to try and beat the she-wolf
off her.

Wounded as the orch is, the reserve of anger or strength, or both is enough
to render the mace-blow effective, for as Aldawin turns to avoid the swing
of the mace's head, it again contacts her right side, further injuring the
original wound and sending her staggering forward. Clutching that side with
her left hand, she grunts as she draws in a painful breath and sets her feet
to a balanced stance. The blade of her short sword glints silver and stained
of black blood in dim ash-light, yet holding her sword forward, she has only
the time to ready for another attack from the orch as a result of her
stumbling.

She comes quickly to the side of her friend Finnabair, just as the Ranger's
axe misses the guar-beast, Emeldir trying to fend off further attacks by
swinging her heavy sword in an upward arc towards the beast, using it to
blunt further attacks by her sharp teeth.

The Orch beast wails still, infact the cries never wholly cease. The jaw of
the beast is heald wide and spittle and blood mingle apon its malformed
chin. The Orch lopes forward, the shatter torn lump of arm drags over the
floor. the stooped form of th figure plows forward at frightning speed, pure
animal has taken over. The mace swing low this time, whipped at the legs of
the female with some venom, yet the full weight of the bent and twisted
beast hurtles at her.

The defender's right flank has been all but broken now, and the Beorian
guardsmen under the fallen Erathil's command are hard pressed to keep any
semblance of order as they withdraw further up the slope and away from the
surging tide of orchish warriors. The sheer number of eager beasts that
throw themselves against the shield of spears formed by Aegnor's
well-trained elven soldiers is enough to drive them back, and although the
beleaguered defenders have managed to avoid a full-out rout, the pass seems
already lost to the advancing yrch hoarde.

Again the bones crunch in Seregurth's jaws, and she growls in short,
chuckling bursts as the woman struggles, unsuccessfully, to fend her off.
The gaur's world is reduced tio this, the blood, the need for more. So when
the sharp blade pierces her flank, Seregurth youwls, ripping her teeth from
her hapless prey and lunging at the sword-arm of her unknown attacker.

Emeldir grits her teeth to keep from crying out as the guarbeast snarls and
snaps at her now, her teeth gnashing and biting even through the chainmail
armour that protects her. She quickly draws her arm out of the beast's mouth
before she can bring her sharp teeth down again, wincing at the pain as she
thrusts the tip of blade with all her might at the beast's belly.

Ka'dar looks along the front line of the orchish tide, his own men ever
pressing the crumbling flank of the humans. Off to his right he notes the
Guar fighting with two women. He growls in hesitation, his dislike for Guar
causing him to pause, but after a moment he begins moving through the
crowded ranks in that direction, bashing his mace to the left and right as
he attempts to clear his path.

Finnabair gasps aloud, relieved when the Gaur finally lets go of her arm and
she can stumble back from it, dazed and as yet unaware that it is Emeldir's
interjection that has distracted the beast. Her arm useless at her side, a
sheen of sweat covers her and once she is several steps from it she looks,
alarmed to find the Lady battle with the she-wolf, "Emeldir! No!", she
cries, gritting her teeth against the overriding pain present in her arm,
"Away!", she says, looking desperately to the broken ranks of Dorthonions
who flee back up the pass.

Snarling as the pain rips through her body, the gaur turns fully, ignoring
her prey now to deal with the new threat. Her eyes kindle, and she howls her
distress, and then lunges for the sword-arm of the lady, her jaws snapping
once more.

Prepared for the next onslaught by Tarkut, the Healer from Ladros is
nonetheless ill-prepared for the ferocity of the attack. And though she
attempts to skirt the blow by leaping aside, the mace swings wild and low,
clipping her left shin and calf with a glancing blow. Not enough to send
Aldawin to the ground, it does require something her balance in correction,
and with the mace turned downwards, Aldawin now sends the bite of her blade
in an wavering but upward thrust towards the orch's extended right arm.

Ducking under a swinging sword, Ka'dar pushes the man back while continueing
to move his way through the fighting throng of humans and orch, drawing
closer to the Guar and its two opponents.

Glancing once at Finnabair, Emeldir shakes her head briefly to her friend,
her grey eyes saddened as she too sees their ranks straggled and retreating.
The black blood of the guar-beast glistens on the end of her sword now,
though, and Emeldir steps aside from the next snap of her snarling snout,
thrusting her sword once more towards the guar's already wounded belly.
"Finna... follow ... the ... others... please," she manages to gasp out to
her friend as Emeldir parries with the guar.

A great, alarmed cry is raised by a countless number of voices at the center
of the pass as the elven spear-bearer's solid shield wall is at last
shattered by the overwhelming throng of orchish warriors that assault it.
The mail-clad warriors from Aegnor's tower attempt to hold their ground
despite the sudden, powerful advance, yet many of their number fall to
orchish blade and spear, and they are forced further back up the ash-choked
pass. Lightly-armoured Beorian runners rush away from the sharp, chaotic
struggle, sent by their surviving officers to bring word to the tower that
stands high above.

Ka'dar's advance finally takes him within reach of the battle between the
Guar and the two women. Smiling a wicked and lopsided grin he wades forward,
stepping passed the last fighters blocking his path and prepares to join in.

Finnabair's grey eyes grow to black and she holds her ground, refusing to
leave the Lady's side, "Emeldir!", she shouts again, over the din, "Leave
off and come now!", a bold enough order from the woman ranger that would
leave little room for argument. Turning on her heel, she is only a few yards
from where she began the battle and she reaches down and snatches up the bow
left amongst a dozen others, never to be retrieved, and begins to back away,
"Emeldir!", she calls again, motioning the pass with a sweep of her axe.

The flinging right arm of the beast ceases not and the mace whips back at
the legs again. Yet the loping stride carries the arm forward so the short
stabbing sword licks up the upper arm of the beast, a howl of pain grows
again and it rises to a scream as the flesh ripples apart. A long and deep
wound is sliced up the arm his own step forcing the blade further up the
thick skin. The rolling stride however stutters, as the shodden foot of
Tarkut catches in the mouth of a fallen Orch, the creature lolls forward and
falls flat to the blood mire beneath. Filth and death fills the lungs as
they gasp in the filth, yet the creature rolls to its side.

The sword pierces deep, and the gaur howls in agony, thrashing as her blood
pours upon the charred earth. She snarls menacingly at the sword-weilding
woman but backs away slightly, just out of reach of the wicked horrid blade.

Out of breath from the attacks, wounded now herself, Emeldir pauses for a
moment, considering Finnabair's plea, yet turns back to see not just the
guar now but an orch beyond her. She swings her sword menacingly towards the
guar, both hands tightly wrapped around it's hilt as she brings it in a
sweeping arc towards the guar's snout.

Now she turns to heed Finnabair's pleas, and stoops beside the Ranger,
helping her to move as swiftly as they can off the field of battle.

Finnabair turns with Emeldir from the great Gaur, racing with her up the
burnt pass, dozens of Dorthonion's ranks before and behind them, all seeking
the safety of the fort. Bodies of ally and foe lie strewn over the ground,
and the Beorian ranger moves deliberately among them, her eye not lighting
any one of them. The pain in her arm throbs with the fast pacing of her
heart, blood smeared over it and trickling off the tips of her fingers while
her other hand clutches both axe and bow tightly. Defeated and escaping to
the top of the pass, not daring to look back into the last remenants of the
fray, Finnabair makes it to the gates and disappears within.

Blinking back blood from her right eye as the scratch upon her face bleeds
freely, Aldawin winces with each breath as her right side throbs in pain.
This last feeble attempt of the orch's attack is little more than a
graze--scoring the unprotected side of her left calf, but causing no greater
distress than that. As the host of Aldawin's kinsman are in retreat, the
orch's falling to the ground is providence as it allows the healer to
forsake the fight and turn away as well. The sword still gripped in her
right hand, her left hand is held firm to her right side as she makes her
retreat upon the ash-covered ground in pursuit of safety over the pass.

The human and elven defenders have all but forsaken the pass, and most make
a hasty retreat up the sloping, rocky path and through the charred remains
of the pine forests surrounding them. A smaller force of combined Beorian
guardsmen and their elven allies remains behind, clustered closely together
to block the advancing orchish tide. These beleaguered warriors seek to hold
off the countless twisted creatures, whose numbers are still not fully
revealed due to the obscuring haze of the smokey battlefield and the flames
of the forests just to the south.
