Fountain Plaza

Four streets lead together opening up around a large white-marble fountain.
To the west the harbour's waters gleam. To the east the citywall and
tower-keep lie. To the north and south the streets lead up to individual
gates. The over all design of the city reminds of a horse-shoe with the ends
to the sea. All around stand the elven homes made of stone and wood, softly
curved, without sharp corners. Gently slanted roofs high over the paved
streets, crested at each end with a seabird special to every house.

Generally one story-high, they are wide, high and deep without seeming
pompous, instead such words as homey, warm and open leaps to mind as one
glances in through the windows and doorways. Flowers stand along the walls,
trees give their pleasant shade and vines hug the houses - Life here
is...celebrated.

WEATHER UPDATE: A gentle breeze blows, bending the grasses and stirring the
scattered leaves. Amassed in the sky are harrowing clusters of shadowy
clouds. The temperature is in the 30's.

Contents:

Elsabet

Finrod

Fountain

Sea-shell Tree

Obvious exits:

Arched Trellis leads to Herb Garden.

Bronze Doors leads to Fellowship Hall.

East leads to Eastern Street.

Western Bridge leads to Bay Island.

North leads to Brithombar - Inside North Gates.

South leads to Brithombar - Inside South Gates.

No sun shines over the land of Falas. Even the sea breeze cannot dispel the
heavy layer of brown clouds that lies over the land, muting the colors and
deadening all sound. For four days the clouds have filled the sky, and the
normally cheerful Falathrim have gone about their daily activities with
heavy hearts and a sense of dread. Now tiny flakes of black ash have begun
to fall from the sky, spreading in an uneven blanket across the trees and
homes. The ash touches the gold hair of Finrod Felagund as he stands by the
sea shore, gazing west across the water. His heavy cloak is drawn tight
around him and he shivers as he stares at the horizon.

One of the many apprehensive glances to the sky these days comes from
Elsabet, who stands well off to the side, giving wide girth to Finrod as he
stares out over the sea, though her own glance flickers often towards the
son of Finarfin.

A certain amount of commotion precedes Curundil's arrival, as the Falathrim
who see him call the news to one another. The delay between word of the
rider's approach and his actual appearance is not long, however, as Curundil
rides up to where Finrod is standing at a fairly fast clip, coming to a
quick stop only a few feet away. Ash-covered from head to toe, and even more
exhausted looking than the horse he rides, the page attempts to start
talking even before he climbs down from the saddle, but ends up inhaling
some of the ash and having a coughing fit instead.

Elsabet turns, startled at the commotion, but restrains herself from rushing
over to her cousin upon his arrival. Clasping her hands behind her back, she
tunes her attention on him, awaiting his message anxiously, though she masks
her disquiet as best she can.

At the sound of coughing, the king spins around and hurries to his
messenger's side. "Rest, my friend," he says soothingly, offering a hand to
assist the youth, should Curundil need help. "There is no matter so urgent
that it cannot wait a moment for a weary messenger to catch his breath and
gather his thoughts. Step over here beside the fountain. There is a ledge
upon which you may sit. I can have wine brought if you require it." He
glances around for a page, but this is the city of the Falathrim, not his
underground kingdom and there is no page ready to attend him. Seeing a maid
nearby who looks familiar to him, he calls out to Elsabet, "Milady, would
you be so good as to assist us here?"

Startled out of her focus upon being addressed, Elsabet looks briefly
flustered but soon steps forward. "Any assistance I can provide would be
gratefully offered, my lord," she replies upon catching her tongue again.
"Shall I fetch wine for Curundil?"

"Yes, please. My thanks to you," Finrod replies to Elsabet, most of his
attention still on Curundil. "There is a vendor at the far side of the
square." He motions with his hand to a canopy covered stall a short distance
away. "Ask the wine merchant for a bottle and several goblets. I shall
compensate him for his efforts later."

Curundil allows himself to be seated by the fountain, still coughing hard.
He glances up when Elsabet speaks, obviously recognizing her voice, but of
course, is still unable to say a word to her. Not wanting to wait, he scoops
one hand into the fountain, and takes a drink of water from it, heedless of
propriety, or indeed good sense. Rather hoarsely he says to Finrod, "Sire, I
bring a message from Aran Fingolfin."

Elsabet runs quickly off, her footsteps echoing through the largely silent
plaza as the crowds eavesdrop intently on Curundil. She speaks with the
merchant for a few moments, their conversation muted by the distance. The
wine is quickly obtained and she returns, placing the wine and goblets on
the fountain ledge next to Curundil, though she keeps her silence. Her
errand finished, she takes a few steps back, pausing once again and clasping
her arms behind her back.

After clearing his throat again, Curundil glances at the wine that Elsabet
has so kindly brought, but seems to agitated to do more than take note of it
for now. His voice still cracking now and again, he says as distinctly as he
can, looking right at Finrod's eyes as he does so, "Aran Fingolfin said to
tell you that he has need of you now, Sire. For the storm you both feared is
now upon us and the Ard-Galen is no more."

Finrod smiles at Elsabet as she returns with the wine and starts to pour a
goblet, but freezes at Curundil's words. "I see," he murmurs, glancing up at
the brown sky. "How many days ago did you depart from Barad Eithel?"

Curundil holds up five fingers, but also repeats it, saying, "Five days,
m'lord. I rode as fast as I could, but I had to take a more westerly course,
to avoid the flames and the yrch."

"Five days," Finrod echoes, his voice still soft. Then his eyes widen a
fraction and he stares at Curundil in horror, the wine goblet all but
forgotten in his hands. "You said Ard-Galen is no more. Have you news of
Dorthonion? What of my brothers? Their towers face toward Ard-Galen. Have
you news of them?"

Curundil shakes his head, saying, "I don't know, m'lord. I don't think the
flames reached as far as their towers, but no word had come to Aran
Fingolfin of their fate, or the fate of those in Dorthonion when I left." He
pauses, a look of distress crossing his face, "I'm sorry, Aran. There was no
news of them at all and I couldn't go that way!"

As quickly as it began, Finrod's look of horror subsides and he shakes his
head. "Nay, you need not seek my forgiveness. You have done well, very well,
Curundil. I should not have sent you on such an errand if I had realized
that darkness would fall so soon." He pauses and draws in a long breath,
turning to look at Elsabet once more. "Milady," he calls, "I...forgive me,
although I have seen you before in nargothrond, I do not know your name."

"I am called Elsabet, sire," she responds, slightly hesitant. "I am kin to
young Curundil," she adds, gesturing towards the page. At a loss for
anything more to say, she drops into the safety of silence once again,
looking vaguely unsettled.

Looking somewhat demoralized, Curundil just sits by the fountain and stares
at his feet for a few moments. "Sire?" he asks when he finally looks up,
"Will we be riding north again, then?"

Although his face is pale in the grey light, Finrod manages a smile for the
youth. When he speaks, his voice is calm and clear once again, with no trace
of fear or concern. "Aye, we shall. But first we will ride home and muster
our folk. Then shall the host of Nargothrond thunder across the plain." He
places the wine bottle on the ground beside the fountain and takes a seat on
the wall beside Curundil. Laying one hand on the youth's shoulder, he offers
him the goblet with the other. "But we will have a banquet before we go, and
the minstrels shall sing of your deed, at least. You have ridden far and
fast with the fire at your back and delivered your news with great haste. It
seems that my choice of messenger was wise."

Curundil takes the goblet and attempts a faint smile at Finrod's words. "You
will let me ride with the host, won't you, Aran?" he asks anxiously, "I have
friends amongst the Adan of Dorthonion now, and Aran Fingolfin was very kind
to me in Ard-Galen. Even when I hit him wit..." he stops himself before
letting the story slip, and corrects it to, "He was very understanding. And
I've friends among his folk as well."

For a moment the king does not answer, but merely watches the youth in
silence. Finally, he nods and says, "Normally one so young as you would be
left in Nargothrond, but you have earned a place in the army, I think, due
to your recent heroism. You shall ride at my side as my squire, if that
would please you. And my boots shall shine brightly enough to make the enemy
take flight, for I have not forgotten your chief talent." He grins and pats
Curundil's shoulder, then lets his hand fall away. "But I must seek out
Cirdan and speak with him about these new events. Can you find your way back
to the camp? You should let Celvir know what is happening and that we must
prepare to ride again as soon as possible. Messengers should be sent ahead
to Nargothrond to begin the muster of our folk, even as we ride home."

Curundil nods, looking relieved at Finrod's words. Hastily taking a gulp of
wine from the goblet he was given, he says, "I'll go find Celvir now, Sire.
And...thank you. Thank you very much." He gets to his feet, knocking back
the rest of the wine as he does so and placing the goblet back by the
fountain. Turning, he smiles one more time, then goes to lead his horse off
in the direction of the Nargothrondhrim camp.

Finrod's smile fades as soon as Curundil departs and his gazes shifts
westward once more. He murmurs a few quiet words in Quenya, then rises to
his feet and heads toward the inner part of the city.
