Cast:

Elwen Aiwelinde, Loremaster of Mithrim

Mirelinde, Artist of Mithrim

Fingalad, Shieldman of the Mithrim Army

Location:

The Healers' Hall in the fortress of the Barad Eithel

Time and Setting:

Sometime before midnight. Midwinter. The Dagor Bragollach has just begun,
and the surrounding hills are yet engulfed with flame

Night has come once again to Barad Eithel, though the sky outside is yet lit
with an eerie red glow, as the heavily forested slopes of the Ered Wethrin
kindle and burn. Even here in the Healers' hall the air has a bitter, smoky
tang, and the light through the thick window-glass is the color of blood.
The wounded here are yet few, for so sudden was the onslaught of flame and
so swift, that few have returned from beyond the walls of the fortress.
Those few, and a small number from those who were in the fortress, lie upon
beds here, suffering from burns or from the smoke and ash in the air. In the
doorway stands a soot-covered maiden, regarding the scene silently with
grave eyes, before she takes a few steps into the hall.

Already in the hall, sitting upon one of the edges of a bed is Mirelinde.
She slowly strokes the brow of one of the injured--an edhel who looks to be
Sinda as well--and her blue gaze regards him soberly. Her face is smudged
with the grey haze of soot, and evidence of former tears since dried have
left streaks upon her cheeks. She hears the arrival of another, faint as it
is, and turning her head towards the doorway, a faint smile graces her face.
"Mellon," is all she says quietly yet looks to the elleth, in question,
perhaps wondering at her arrival.

Elwen turns her head at the sound of the voice, and her lips turn upward
slightly, a wan almost-smile at the Sinda maiden. Tears too, streak her
face, though whether from sorrow or merely from the bitter smoke one cannot
say. "Suilaid," she murmurs, her voice soft and low. And then she turns her
head, looking 'round, as if seeking someone. "Have you seen the lady
Alquawen about? I have need of her, or one of the senior healers."

"She was here earlier," comes the soft reply. "Yet I have not seen her for
some time." A brow is raised in concern and further question, though
Mirelinde continues to stroke the edhel's brow slowly. "What is your need,
mellon?" she wonders, looking with more interest to Elwen now. "There might
be one of the others in the gardens, culling herbs for the wounded. And the
maiden's gaze travels absently in that direction before she looks again to
the sleeping elf at her side.

"If there are any in the gardens," answers Elwen, "there is little use in
it, between the freeze and the ash." She shakes her head, coughing slightly,
and then glances towards the alcove where many of the healers prepare their
medicines. "As soon as the fire dies down, supplies shall be brought from
Menelmacar. I came to ask what was needed."

"I suppose there must have been some small remnant to salvage, for they were
in earnest about it earlier," Mirelinde says with a slight shrug. "As for
what is needed, I know not." The elleth's voice continues quietly. "There
are not many here to attend, as you see." A moment--seeming awkward in its
silence--passes. "Are you well, mellon?" the Sinda now inquires, seeming to
look the other over in a cursory gaze.

"I will wait for her," says Elwen quietly, pulling up a chair and sitting
herself in it. She coughs once more, and then closes her eyes, relaxing for
a brief moment. "I am well," she says quietly to the other. "My thanks that
you asked, but--" She shrugs, and then opens her eyes once more. "Something
to drink... that is what I need," she murmurs slowly. "The very air sears my
throat... I am that parched."

"There was some wine earlier in the feast hall," she says quietly, turning
now to Elwen. "Someone had remarked that the well was contaminated from the
ash, though I know not the truth of it." Her voice is almost a whisper, but
still the elleth forces a wan smile through the sadness of their situation.
Though cheerless, it serves some purpose in the maiden's silent muse that
follows as her gaze travels to those who are convalescing nearby.

From upon the outer walls of the fortress of Barad Eithel comes Fingalad to
the Hall of Healers. He has seen several kinsmen brought in, and now enters
the doors of the Healers Hall. The darkness of the night glows a sullen
crimson behind him as he enters now, coughing. His face is stained with
soot, and he wears the look of distress upon his face. Entering in, he sees
the Lady Elwen and says, "Mellon....are you injured?" In the confusion of
the day, he looks bewildered now. His brow furrows as he looks at the
injured and sick in the hall.

"It is the truth," answers Elwen, her voice cracking, and then failing her.
She sighs, and continues in a whisper, "Yet it was not as bad as first
reported, and may be drinkable in a few days. Until then--" She shrugs and
looks down. "Water is being rationed, and food as well... we prepare for the
worst, in hopes that it will not happen. There are many casks of fresh water
stored in the cellars of the tower..." She pauses for a moment, and in that
time the door opens, and she looks up to see Fingalad. "I am unhurt," she
whispers, her eyes bright. 'Are you--?"

At the entrance of another and a voice spoken in concern, Mirelinde turns
back to look at the entranceway. It takes a moment for her to recognise the
elf beneath the cover of soot, but soon she sees it is the shieldman with
whom she had made acquaintance in the feasting hall the even before. Her
eyes register concern as well now, though she remains quiet in the time that
Elwen speaks to Fingalad.

Removing his helm, his black hair spills out, damp with sweat. Whiping the
sweat and soot from his face, Fingalad coughs a bit and says as he shakes
his head, "I am well enough, Lady......well enough as can be expected."
Removing his soot-stained cloak, he says, "Though the wells have been spoilt
by this foul and acrid soot!" Anger burns into his words as he speaks. "Long
have I stood upon yonder walls" he waves with a nod of his head, "and looked
upon the ruin of the forests beyond.....how it pains me to see the trees
burn so!" His blue eyes, which so often were capable of great mirth and joy,
now burn with a never before seen rage.

"I... I saw," answers Elwen. "And many cries I heard in the tumult, birds
and beasts unable to run... deer heavy with young, too slow to escape..."
She breaks off, coughing once more, and her eyes fill with tears. "And..."
She bites at her lip, her face paling under the ash and soot, "Our kin that
were upon the plain, guarding against attack from Angband.... I have little
hope that we shall see them, unless we too, should come to Mandos, or return
once more over the sea..."

At the bleak words spoken by both elves, Mirelinde's head hangs down for a
moment, heavy with sorrow. "I saw such things too, and worry for my kin
northwards in the forests," the Sinda answers in near-whisper. She turns to
regard the wounded of her clan who lies unconscious upon the bed she sits
at. "Will not help come for us?" she wonders, looking to Fingalad, and
holding hope of the grey-blue eyes, it is hinted she perhaps speaks of Those
not of Beleriand's soil.

Turning to Mirelinde, the tall Shieldman says, "Help, Lady Mirelinde?"
Shaking his head slowly, he looks down for a moment before returning to her
eys, "I think not, Lady.....I think not. For we left of our own free will in
rebellion of the Valar, and there can be no turning back......" Feeling
within his own fea the desperation of the Doom of the Noldor, Fingalad
nevertheless takes heart. "Yet our King is mighter than the Enemy, and by
our own devices, though we be left without succour from the West, yet still
shall we win this war, desperate now though our plight is."

"No aid shall there be but that of our own kin," answers Elwen, echoing
Fingalad's words in her husky whisper. And then she lowers her head, drawing
her once-white cloak about her, seeming to shrink for a moment. And then she
takes a deep breath, and goes very still. "We may be destroyed, but never...
never defeated..."

Still meeting Fingalad's gaze, Mirelinde only turns from him after Elwen
speaks, setting her mouth in a firm line and turning to glance at the
wounded. "We must do better than that..somehow," she says in her silent
reflection. "All of Beleriand will suffer from this." She turns her gaze to
the window, where the blood-red haze of the eerie, fiery night lends its
strange glow to the blackness. "And our friends, the Edain," she says, yet
does not speak further fears.

Hearing Mirelinde's words, Fingalad walks over to one of the nearby windows
and looks out into the blackness tinged with red. Unsheathing his sword
half-way, he sees how the blade appears stained with blood as it catches the
unholy light outside. Sheathing the sword again, he says to Mirelinde,
"Indeed, Lady, for the Atani of Dorthonion my thought has been given much
this day. For I have a friend there, kind and generous of heart....." he
speaks no more of this, yet his eyes are black as he stares out the window.
"Yet my concern is now for the kinsmen of mine upon the plains, and the
Atani there as well." He stares out at the blackness, head unbowed, yet
muttering to himself unheard words under his breath.

"The flames... came from the north," says Elwen gently, her eyes distant. "I
do not fear for those we left on the plains, for in my heart... I know that
they are beyond our aid. May Mandos have pity on them..." She folds her
hands in her lap, and falls silent once more.

Standing at last, Mirelinde, too, moves in soft and slow steps to look out
the window. Almost involuntary is her need to look to the silent destruction
of the forests and fields she holds dear. For a long moment she stares in
utter silence--her gaze unblinking, yet full of the sorrow of that day. "For
our losses I must grieve," she says quietly, though steady of tone. She
places a comforting hand upon Fingalad's shoulder, then withdraws from the
sight. "What shall follow this in answer. Do you know, mellyn?" she now
wonders, almost afraid to hear the reply.

Turning to Mirelinde, Fingalad says, "Indeed, we shall all grieve for some
fallen kinsmen or many....yet as for what follows this flame of the North?"
Turning to the Lady Elwen, he shakes his head silently for a moment, then
returns his eyes to Mirelinde saying, "Who can say? Yet we must prepare for
some stroke from the north, so much has experience with him whom we name not
taught us." Gripping the pommel of his sword, the warrior says,
"Mirelinde.....only one thing will follow this sign."

"War." Elwen looks at the two of them, Noldo and Sinda, and her eyes kindle.
"How can there be any other answer. If we do not fight, we shall die." Her
face is grim, and she shakes her head. "I do not intend to die..."

"Nor do I." The words spoken by Mirelinde are of a deeper tone and
undoubtedly a pledge. Yet the Sinda's gaze is thoughtful upon her fallen
comrade nearby, and she looks to the two Noldo now with a deeper sense of
dedication. Glancing at the window, she turns away from it fully at last and
sits down at the bedside once more.

Looking upon the Lady Elwen, he knows full well the iron in her will, and he
smiles grimly, slowly nodding his head. "Verily spoken, mellon....." he says
to her. Then turning to Mirelinde, he smiles and says, "The courage and
valor of those that crossed the Helcaraxe and fenced the darkness in shall
not be overwhelmed by any terror, dread though it be. War indeed, if ever
there was any doubt before, is the only choice. Battle shall be joined soon,
I should think, in a conflict that shall decide the fate of our peoples. For
we are, I believe, on the threshold of some great throw, and the loser shall
fall hard, I think."

"Battle has already been joined," speaks Elwen, her voice still the broken
whisper, though her eyes are fierce. "He has brought it to our very door,
the Lord of Thralls, whether we will it or nay." And then she saighs, and
shakes her head. "Yet our loss shall be great, whether we win or lose, and
by the war itself we are diminished, fallen from who we were."

Mirelinde stiffens at this observation, seeming unwilling to accept the
plight. "I count not my own fallen," she whispers in consideration, "and it
does my heart no good to think of it in that way, mellon. I would rather
your words of hope and resolution echo in my ears, for so easily the doubts
of those whispered of shadows would coax my mind to despair." She traces her
finger lightly upon a streak of soot that mars the light green of her dress.

Looking kindly upon Mirelinde, Fingalad says, "Lady, understand that I am a
soldier of the King, and have fought many a battle in his service.....and if
that service has made me appear to be hard of heart or lacking in hope, let
it be known this is not so. For my faith in my Aran and his wisdom is
without measure, so far and hard a journey has he led us through. These be
fell and wicked signs, to be sure" he says, nodding out the window again,
"but never before have I seen signs of this before, that the whole world be
aflame with the malice of the north." Moving for the door, he says, "Mellyn,
I have tarried here too long, and must needs return to my post upon yonder
rampart. Fare thee well, and take heart!" Gripping the pommel of his sword,
he takes his helmet and cloak, opens the door quickly, and disappears into
the burning air outside.

"I do not despair," says Elwen quietly, and then she falls silent as
Fingalad speaks. She rises as he leaves, her gaze upon him intense. "May the
Valar watch over you, Fingalad," she calls after him, lifting up her hand.
And then she sighs, and looks at Mirelinde. "I do not speak words of
despair, mellon, but merely the truth. We have fallen indeed from what we
once were, when we sang under the stars unafraid. We have traded scholarship
for strategy, and weapon-smithing for craftwork. For Eru never made us to
live in this fashion..." She shakes her head and sighs.

Upon Fingalad's departure, Mirelinde, too calls a "farewell" after him. The
elf is quiet as Elwen speaks of a time before her own, and contemplates it
with a softened gaze. "It must be difficult to retain the memory so
clearly," she considers at last, turning a kind gaze to the elleth. "And see
such fading in comparison." She shakes her head. "I have no such memories,
and those things most beautiful to me have this day been trampled and
consumed by the Evil in the north."

"Difficult?" asks Elwen softly, turning her eyes towards the Sinda once
more. "Nay, I hold those memories close to me, as precious as gems. And
yet..." She sighs, retaking her seat and closing her eyes. "Yet I cannot
agree that Morgoth has this day destroyed everything. The stars still shine,
even in the darkness, even above the reek of smoke." She smiles wanly,
taking a deep breath. "As long as they shine, he will not conquer."

"Yes. By Elbereth's light, he will not," Mirelinde agrees casting her gaze
upwards as if it might reach through stone and smoke and noxious haze. "Only
that I could see that light to comfort me," she muses softly and a solemn
smile crosses her face. She brings this expression to Elwen now and fidgets
with the hem of her sleeve. "Perhaps I shall go and view the tapestries
again. They bring me comfort when out of the forested lands."

"I need not to see it... not now... I only need to know that the stars
shine." Elwen leans back in the chair, and then shakes herself, blinking
owlishly. "I am weary," she murmurs, "I would leave you to your tapestries,
and ease my mind elsewhere...." She chuckles softly. "If I felt like getting
up, that is..."

Mirelinde regards the other elleth quietly a moment. "There are extra beds
here, if you would walk as far as one of those," she suggests, her smile
warming. "And if that still is too far, then why not come with me, and I
shall help you back to your quarters. For I would think that would be much
more restful there." With one more soft stroke upon the brow of the sleeping
edhel, Mirelinde stands and casts one last thoughtful glance upon him. "I do
not even know his name," she muses quietly. "But his face I well remember
from the Yule festivities in the Edain camp some days ago." She turns to
Elwen now. "What would you do, then, mellon?" she asks softly.

"Angadil... will be off-duty soon," says Elwen softly. "For even in this
war, we must rest. He... would be worried were I not there in our
quarters.... I should go there." She rises slowly, looking thoughtfully,
almost wistfully at the chair. "You... need not accompany me if you wish to
stay here with him?"

"Nay, mellon," Mirelinde answers, coming to the lady's side. "He has not
woken from his sleep in hours. I think it is a sedative administered by the
healers that makes him sleep, and so it is good that he continue thus." Her
mouth tugs in a quick smile as she falls into step beside Elwen. "You may
lean upon me if necessary, mellon," she says, glancing once more at the
wounded in the hall. A shadow crosses her brow, but quickly she dispells the
thoughts that cause it, and looking to the exit, starts forward.

"It should not be necessary, but I thank you," answers Elwen softly. She
steps towards the door, lifting the edge of her cloak to cover her mouth.
Glandcing at the elleth beside her, she opens the door only enough to dart
through it, and out to the ashen world outside.
