Beleriand - Saturday, February 03, 2001, 1:42 PM

Large Kitchen

This is a large kitchen set just off of the main hall of the tower. It is
walled in stone, floored in wide planks of richly glowing wood, and beamed,
on the ceiling, with huge timbers. Cooks and their apprentices scurry about
the room, clanging cast iron pots and pans and doing as much work as they
can to prepare the next meal. A large baking oven blasts warmth from a far
wall, and spices hang down, sometimes to eye level, from the beams. The
smell is wonderful..your appetite increases just being here. The noise,
however, is not nice at all.

Suddenly and with no warning, the floor beneath you begins to shake, the
very earth seeming to groan. The light from the window dims, and far-off
thunder rumbles.

Work in the kitchen rarely stops and so it is now with cooks and their
apprentices moving efficiently about the large room, preparing food and
cleaning pots and pans. The fire is stoked high, several kettles and
cauldrons hung over the flames so that they might be brought to a boil.
Finnabair steps across the kitchen, managing to keep out of the way as she
takes a bowl of fish stew toward a quiet spot. Halfway there, the room
suddenly shudders beneath her feet, accompanied by a low groan from the
depths of the earth and the rumble of thunder causing startled cries to rise
from many and everything in the kitchen clatters noisely together. The boom
of thunder follows from the distance and Finnabair, glancing quickly to the
swift darkening at the window, stumbles a step and reaches for the edge of a
nearby table to steady herself, the bowl of stew slipped from her hands to
lie spilt and forgotten at her feet.

Near the far end of the large chamber, seated at the head of a table that
stretches underneath the room's only window, rests Erathil. The Beorian
officer eats voraciously from his own bowl of stew, and from a half-eaten
loaf of bread. His pale grey eyes survey the surrounding numbers of cooks
and attendants, though his gaze is drawn to the approaching Finnabair, whom
he salutes with a quick wave of his hand. The older adan raises a mug of
cider to his lips, drinking deeply from it, only to nearly spill it across
the table's smooth surface as the first of the strong, thundering tremors
shakes the stone chamber all around him. His eyes widen with obvious shock,
and he rises quickly from his seat even as the first cries of alarm ring out
from within the kitchen and from the halls outside.

The door from the Great Hall bursts open with violence as Melchior, eyes
wide and face flushed, appears in the doorway. The room shakes; the light is
drained from the room. The archer, sizes the wall and stumbles in its
violence. He lands on the floor, at length, cursing, uncharactistcally, and
slowly picking himself. "The-thuh smell...I-I remember..." His eyes grow
wide and intense as he glances at the darkness and reek filling the skies.

Finnabair takes a firm hold on the high, block table that she stands by, her
gaze sweeping away from the window to the darkening room around her where
the men and women of the kitchen cry out to one another, fleeing without
direction or order or else hiding themselves beneath table and chair. A
brief glimpse of Melchior fallen, is revealled to her between a space of
pushing figures and she holds there for what seems a long moment, at bay in
a sea of terror, before forcing herself away to the dim shape of Erathil
ahead. "What is it?!", she calls over the din to the man, coughing with the
dust stirred by the shaking and grabbing hold of a chair as the stone floor
rolls beneath her feet again.

Voices of startled contention rise, echoing in the hallways, as sense is
attempting to be made of the sudden trembling and vapours that have manifest
themselves. One of the voices without is clearly Aldawin's. "I know not,"
she says in answer to one errant call, and the slip snd scuffle of booted
feet sounds with another rolling tremble of the ground. Soon, the healer's
form is at the entryway, steadied with hands braced to either side of the
doorframe. The clatter of heavy iron pots can be heard in the kitchen,
though the darkness, thick, enshrouds. Aldawin shudders with the new tremor,
and seeks to see those gathered in the room, having heard the familiar
voices outside.

Erathil is nearly thrown off his feet by the second of the powerful tremors,
and he stoops low over the heavy wooden table, his hands gripping
desperately at it for support. The Beorian guardsman's pale eyes are wide
and fearful, and he gazes confusedly across the panic-filled kitchen until
finding Finnabair where she stands. "I know not." He utters softly in reply,
just as the floor's heaving throws his dinner off the table and down to the
floor, where the clay stew bowl shatters into a hundred pieces. Erathil
curses softly under his breath, and begins to stagger towards the large
window as soon as the quaking temporarily subsides. His mouth falls agape at
the sight: The previously clear, azure skies have begun to darken with
thick, rolling clouds of black, choking ash and smoke, casting a deep,
unnatural shadow across the wooded slopes of northern Dorthonion.

The ground rumbles; dishes clatter; cups topple; the people tremble.
Melchior winces as if in pain, closing his eyes for a moment, grabbing his
head and rocking back and forth on the floor. "No, they can't remember
me..he can't be looking for me, not still...they can't be coming for me..No,
no!" he whispers to himself, as if to another person, as he were suddenly
mad. He opens eyes again. Finnabair makes her way the Erathil, admidst the
shoving and yelling of the people in the kitchen. He take a hand from his
tortured head and reaches out, "Help me!" He sniffs again, "That smell, I-I
remember...no!" He begins rocking back and forth again.

Hearing Melchior's cry for help, Aldawin drops to her knees and follows his
voice to where he rocks slowly upon the floor, head covered in his hands.
"Are you injured?" she asks, laying a hand upon his shoulder gently.
"Melchior?" In the dim light is it hard for her to see, and she winces again
as the the clattering sound of a dish or pot falling to the hard stone
floor.

Finnabair lifts her arm and presses the thick fabric of the sleeve against
her face, seeking to keep the dust from choking her even as she coughs and
squints through it. The earth settles a moment, yet the kitchen is filled
with shouts and running feet and Finnabair uses the respite as Erathil,
following him to the window where she plants hands firmly on the ledge
there. The view beyond is enough to still her breath and the beating of her
heart, her eyes round and wide, "Valar save us.", she breaths aside the
older man, just as Melchior's cries rise up from behind them. Grey eyes race
over the scene: day turning to night with the thickness of ash and smoke
that lifts itself dramatically over the land. "This is unnatural work.", she
utters too, shaking her head in disbelief.

Erathil stands unmoving by the wide window, his hands pressed firmly against
the cold stone ledge before him, his pale grey eyes wide and captured by the
scene beyond. The skies have grown black with thick, rolling clouds of
smoke, and ashes have begun to shower the wooded slopes of northern
Dorthonion like a grey rain. Alarmed calls ring out from beyond the
kitchen's swinging doorway, and these are soon echoed by the shocked,
panicked bakers and cooks that bustle to and fro within. "Fire!" Yells one
of the guardsmen from outside, and it is this shout that at last tears
Erathil's attention from the window. "Aye, it may have stopped for now." He
utters, looking over to where finnabair stands by his side, "Go, alert
everyone. I shall see what this is about..." Without another word, the
Beorian officer turns on his heel and trots hurriedly across the kitchen,
slowing only to look down upon the fallen Melchior and Aldawin before
disappearing through the entrance door.

A strange reek can faintly be smelled as the ashes fill the sky. The ground
groans and moans in its nausea to the evil that brews in its belly. As
Erathil rushes off through the door, Melchior feels Aldawin's hand fall upon
his shoulder. He reels in shock, grabs her arm, and throws her to the floor,
reaching for a pocket knife and screaming in terror, " G-d-aza- Aua- br.-
..!" His widening eyes turn suddenly sorrowful as he realizes who she is. He
drops his knife, and bows his head and weeps-- wiping the floor with his wet
beard in his lament...

Finnabair hardly hears or notices Erathil as he leaves her and the kitchen,
the view out beyond the thick pane of the window pushing aside all else.
Thick ash and soot showers the highlands, blackening earth, rock and tree
and she simply stands there frozen and unbelieving until she wrenches her
gaze away and looks to the room behind her, greeted with another vision of
madness, that of Melchior, the archer, wielding a knife upon the healer,
Aldawin, though with relief she sees him stop himself. Shouts of "Fire!"
continue and Finnabair now races for the wide door of the kitchen along with
dozens of others, passing near the two, "Up!", she commands them.

Wholly unexpecting of Melchior's reaction, Aldawin is surprised at the force
with which she is thrown back to the ground, meeting the stones with such
shock that at first she can utter no sound--even at the flash of a knife in
the dimming light. The cry that issues from Melchior is strange in its
terror and meaning, and the healer is only able to raise up an arm in
defense against her kinsman as she regains her breath. Uttering a sigh of
relief as Melchior recognises her and turns away, Aldawin gets up slowly,
rubbing the back of her head, and looks once again to weeping kinsman now.
At Finnabair's command, however, she looks to the ranger questioning.

But Finnabair is gone from the kitchen without sparing Melchior or Aldawin
another glance or word as she is caught up in the rush of people heading out
into the hall and then beyond. The floor trembles now with the stamp of feet
racing over its stones and the sure-footed, woman ranger disappears quickly
in the press.

His mind far off in another world, Melchior does not reckon with the words
of Finnabair. Though he stops weeping and reeling back and forth, he speaks
not, but only stares out the window with horror. His face is become palid
and knotted in fear of the darkness and screaming and rumbling going on. His
eyes stare and stare and stare. Finally he speaks, "No, no, it's a lie, a
lie they've put in you...somehow...fight it.." He sniffs the air; his eyes
dart back and forth.

Careful not to touch the archer again, Aldawin gets to her feet as well.
"Come, Melchior!" she calls to him from where he stands at the window. "Let
is go with the others." She makes her way to the doorway, once again bracing
herself against further tremors, but glances over her shoulder to see if he
will follow.

With Melchior's assurance that he will follow, Aldawin wastes not another
moment, and hurries in the confusion and mill of people through the Great
Hall and to the outer courtyard. No less disorder does she find there as
people and horses mill about in confusion. Turning a gaze to the blackening
sky, the healer's expression darkens in dread.

The blackened clouds of smoke have blotted out the afternoon sky and the
light of the pale winter sun, casting a deep, inky shadow across Aegnor's
tower and all of Dorthonion's nothern highlands. The snow-clad grounds are
grey now, coated by a blanket of the same hot ashes that fall like gentle
snowflakes from the skies above. Far to the north, beyond the tower's outer
walls, the bright, red-orange glow of fire can be seen. The lush pines that
grow along the sloping hills and mountainsides facing the Ard-Galen burn
uncontrollably, and the black columns of thick smoke that rise from them
hide the featureless plains beyond.

Melchior pushes through the large doors into the courtyard and stands by
Aldawin. His eyes are stark, his face untouched by the chaos and commotion
of the camp. "A man's mind is a mysterious and fragile thing," he states
matter-of-factly to the healer. He looks to the sky as it clouds in ash and
exclaims,"I have dreaded for so long that this day would come, and, indeed,
it has!" Through the bussle of the camp, a group of four archers come
running to meet Melchior. "Lord Melchior, will we not have need of the
arrows you forged?" they say in chorus. "Aye, they are in my armory in a
chest by my tent with my bow. Brint that to me as well," Melchior replies to
the tallest and most keen-eyed archer, who leads the others quickly away.

As Melchior comes to stand beside her and speaks of his premonitions,
Aldawin's gaze is quick and sharp upon him. For her own part in the
commotion, she seems to disbelieve her eyes, for such a thing can surely not
be happening. "Is it not a dream from which I shall awake?" she breathes
softly, turning to seen the billowing black of acrid smoke and the pines so
dearly loved set as torches aflame. So caught by the indescribable horror of
that scene, Aldawin barely notices the archer speaking to the others that
approach, her gaze affixed to the land beyond. "What can we do against such
an onslaught of fire?" she wonders at last.

Finnabair runs out into the yard and immediately begins for the great steps
that climb up to the parapets of the tower. Grabbing for the railings she
takes the stairs two at a time till she comes to the stone walkway of the
walls and the ledge that looks northward. Dusted with soot, she wipes it out
of her eyes and tastes the bitter ash in her mouth and she gazes hard at the
scene before her. The forests of the highlands have been put to flame, each
burning like a torch and quickly spreading, the smoke rolling upwards to
fill the blackened sky more. Cries of despair ring out around her, many at a
loss for what to do, thinking death has come upon them, and Finnabair
herself has a fey look on her as she marches across the wall, gazing
outward.

"It is no dream, but a nightmare. Yet if the light of Felagund and the
houses of elves still burns and hearts of man are steadfast, yea, even the
coming fires may be extinguish, take heart..." Melchior says to her,
pausing, "My terror back in the kitchen...it was..." As the archers return,
Melchior looks to Aldawin, "I pray I did not harm you in my madness. Forgive
me, I prithee." He looks the head archer and exclaims, "Make sure no fire
gets near my armory supplies!" He takes the bow given him from the archers.
"Thank ye." He turns to Aldawin, "I must see that my things are secure." In
a moment he is off with the archers amidst the crowd.

"There is naught to be forgiven," Aldawin says to Melchior, her gaze still
trained upon the ravaging fire in the distance. She swallows back a growing
gnaw of fear, yet she nods in moment following. Finally, she tears her gaze
away long enough to glance after Melchior as he leaves, and another voice,
fearful and questioning, turns her throughts from their darker
deliberations. Tugging at the blue cloak she wears, her fingers trailing
over the emblem near the clasp, Aldawin turns to the young man who addresses
her--from the looks of him, a familiar face and a scout from Ladros.

"Lady?" he inquires. "There are some who have been injured in the tower, who
sit in the courtyard now. Could you see to them?"

Her mind directed to her skills, now, Aldawin nods in agreeement. "Of
couse," she says quietly, drawing in a deep breath. "Take me to see them,"
she says, and follows after the scout.
