Night still hangs over Beleriand, though the stars have faded in the east at
the coming hints of the dawn. Yet here in the North, before the stronghold
of evil, no starlight penetrates the reek and gloom that still pour forth
from the heights of Thangorodrim. All is still and cold, and the wind howls
mournfully about the tumbled rocks.

To the southwest, a cloud of dust appears, and a sound like thunder comes as
a rider appears in the distance, rapidly closing. A golden horse shines in
even the dim light, and on his great back a mail-clad rider, whose eyes
shine bright like twin fires. Arriving uncontested at the gates, Fingolfin
leaps from the back of his horse, pulling forth a silver horn which he blows
with all his might, and the music of it rings in the haunted hills.

"Come forth, Master of Lies!' he cries loudly.

Melkor sits on his throne, deep in the bowels of Angband fortress, doing his
everyday evil business. Suddenly, he hears someone outside calling him
names. Thousands of pairs of eyes turns towards their lord, expecting some
kind of response.

Only the silent stones reply to Fingolfin's call, and he strides to the very
gates of Angband themselves, and smites upon them in rage. "Morgoth!" he
cries, "Come, thou lord of mindless slaves and thralls! Open thy gates and
come forth! Or do you fear me?"

Melkor feels the expectant looks of his minions and they make him uneasy. He
has not left his throne for ages. Slowly, very slowly, he raises his body...

More silence, and the very wind seems to mock the elvenking. He raises his
horn once more, and sends forth a long ringing horncall, the likes of which
have not been heard here since the first rising of the Sun. And then once
more Fingolfin pounds upon the great gate, his words deep and powerful.
"Come, Morgoth, come, show thy face to me, thou whom even the earth abhors!
Come face me, slayer of my father! I challenge thee!"

Melkor walks out of his room slowly, through the maze of tunnels and
stairways, towards the entrance of Angband, to face the daring elf. The
years of spending most power to rule his dark empire might have taken its
toll but his appeareance is still impressive: a tall figure surrounded by
dark aura whose every step makes the earth shake, clad in a black armor,
armed with a giant mace and holding a large tower shield.

Once more the High King pounds upon the gates, his eyes kindled with fury.
"Come forth and face me, Tyrant of the North! Come forth, base and corrupt
slave-master! Come forth and face me, thou who dares call himself Vala and
Lord of Arda, and yet skulks below, trembling and afraid! Show thyself, and
prove thy claim!"

Every insult uttered by Fingolfin makes more evil eyes and minds focus on
their lord. And every new eye and mind makes Melkor stride faster.
Eventually, he steps out of the gates. His glance sweeps from left to right,
eager to find out who has the courage to challenge him.

"Morgoth!" cries Fingolfin once more. And this time there is an answer, and
the earth shakes and groans at the passage of the Vala Melkor, Morgoth the
abhorred. The elvenking stands absolutely still, his mail gleaming like the
stars set by Varda to challenge this very foe. And then the son of Finwe
takes a deep breath, and nods. "Face me, Lord of Lies, if you dare."

Melkor's eyes fix on the location of Fingolfin, blazing with hatred and
arrogance. "How brave, how very brave you are, you pitiful worm," he hisses.
He raises his weapon, getting ready to strike.

In the east, a gleam of light stabs through the black reek, falling upon the
elvenking as he stands. His armour, overlaid with silver, gleams in the pale
light, and he looks up, undaunted, at his foe. "I have come, Morgoth, and do
not fear thee. Canst thou say the same?" Yet even as he speaks, his body
tenses, as the great weapon is raised...

For a few seconds, Melkor stands motionless and silent, with his right hand
(and the mace the hand is holding) raised high above his head, casting a
shadow upon everything around. His eyes would burn a hole in his opponents's
head if looks could do such things. Then he swings his mighty mace at
Fingolfin, who jumps out of its path in the last moment. The mace hits the
ground with a loud bang and leaves a deep crater at the place where
Fingolfin stood a mere eyewink ago.

The ground shudders at the impact of the mighty weapon, and flames up-start
from the depths of the rent earth. Yet Fingolfin, leaping aside, draws
Ringil in answer, the blade flashing blue-white even in the darkness.
Swiftly the son of Finwe darts at his foe, the longsword moving, dancing in
a graceful upwards arc at Morgoth's chest before the elvenking darts
backwards once more.

Somewhat dazed and off-balance, as his weapon landed on the ground rather
than on Fingolfin, Melkor shift his shield to a position more suitable to
deflect Fingolfin's sword, and raises his weapon again. "Oh, the little
insect has got a little shiny sting," he spits out as Ringil gets near his
chest.

Fingolfin does not deign to answer the taunt, save with a sweeping stroke of
his sword, this time lower, aimed at the Vala's right leg. His breath forms
white vapour in the cold air, and the mist gathers round him like a second
cloak. And then he darts backwards once more, away from his foe and the
weapon he holds.

Melkor uses his shield to blocks several Fingolfin's thrusts--almost
effortlessly because his shield is as big as Fingolfin himself. Suddenly, he
turns left swiftly, moving his shield-protected left flank away from
Fingolfin, and his weapon-wielding right hand towards him, making a step
forwarding, and sending Grond along an elegant arc ending approximately at
Fingolfin left shoulder. But alas, the agile elf avoids his charge again.
This time, Melkor reacts promptly, and changes the trajectory of his mace
before it hits the ground but the laws of inertia cannot be fooled and he
has to make another clumsy step forward that gets him very close to
Fingolfin.

The parry of Melkor's shield is almost like a blow of itself, yet Fingolfin
dodges it and the fierce swing of Grond. A grim smile touches his lips and
he moves forwards once more, star-shining underneath the darkness, darting
like lightning. "Elbereth!" he cries, and the name resounds in the cursed
hills, a sweet music. Ringil stabs forward swiftly, like a wasps's sting,
towards the mighty sinew of Morgoth's outstretched leg.

Melkor tries to both stop Ringil with his shield and to move his leg out of
danger but it is too late. The elven sword hits his leg and leaves a nasty
wound as Fingolfin pulls it back quickly. Melkor shrieks, steps back, and
assumes a rather defensive posture, surprised by the pain...and by the
strength of his opponent.

All over the world, the forces of evil stagger with their lord.

The shriek resounds in the Northlands, a rending sound that causes the very
stones to tremble. For a moment, a brief second, Fingolfin pauses, willing
himself not to stop his ears at the dreadful sound. For it is as a shout of
hope in his ears, and he lets out a fierce cry of his own, calling out the
name of his father, whom Morgoth slew. And again the great blue-white blade
stabs forward, the elvenking aiming a second blow to the bleeding wound on
the Vala's leg.

This time, Melkor's defense is better. An edge of his shield knocks Ringil
away from its target the exact moment the sword's tip touches it. The second
wound is more a scratch than anything serious but Melkor's psyche appears to
be hurt badly, perhaps worse than by the first hit. He hisses something
unintelligible and the slits of his pupils widen. He waves Grond like a
lunatic and misses Fingolfin several times, smashing rocks and leaving deep
scars in the earth.

From each pit, fire darts, and the deep gloom lights with a lurid glow from
beneath. The smoke wreathes with the steam of Fingolfin's breath, a strange
mist, almost unreal. Finwe's second son darts again and again away from the
swinging Grond, unable to strike for long moments. And then, at last, on one
of Melkor's downstrokes, Fingolfin darts closer, aiming a swift stroke at
Morgoth's weapon-arm, Ringil's blade twisting in an eerie arc. And then
Fingolfin leaps back, not waiting to see if his blow has struck.

Melkor's right arm jerks and Grond nearly falls out of his hand. Apparently,
Fingolfin has scored another hit. A muffled cry of rage and pain breaks
through Melkor's clenched teeth. He raises his mace again, repeating his
futile attempts to hit and kill his enemy. More black steaming blood spills
out of his injuries as he moves but the supply appears to be inexhaustible.

A soft exhalation comes from Fingolfin's lips as the black blood steams upon
the earth, and he speaks soft words of thanks to the Valar, to Manwe and
Varda and Ulmo lord of waters. His eyes still burn with the flame of his
spirit, shining even as the eyes of the Valar. Again he darts forwards,
aiming a sweeping stroke once more at Morgoth's wounded leg, holding his
shield high to protect him.

One of Melkor's mighty (but inaccurate) blows licks Fingolfin's shield and
makes him reel a little bit. Nevertheless, it is not enough to prevent the
elf from adding a long cut across the left leg to the growing list of
Melkor's wounds. Melkor staggers and another muffled screech interrupts the
stream of grumbles, curses, and gasps. Nevertheless, the blind battle craze
has already overtaken the Vala's mind--he keeps swinging his weapon madly,
punching the ground again and again, spraying all neighbourhood with drops
of his own blood.

Again and again Fingolfin darts away from the Vala's blows, like lightning
from beneath a thundercloud, flickering, never twice in the same place. A
strange and deadly dance, and the drumbeat the booming echo of Grond
pounding the tortured earth. Finally Fingolfin darts in once more, stabbing
once again at the weapon-arm of Morgoth.

Melkor's arm writhes in pain and he loses his grip on Grond. The mace falls
out of his hand and impacts the ground with a thump. Melkor yells out, a mix
of a blood-freezing screech and an obscene oath. He tries to knock Fingolfin
with a bare hand but the intense pain reminds him of its injuries. He turns
and attacks his enemy with the shield.

The son of Finwe darts closer once more towards the towering black figure,
swinging Ringil once more at the Vala's wounded leg. Yet he is not swift
enough this time, and the weight of Morgoth's shield bears full upon him,
forcing him to his knees. His own shield buckles with the force of the blow,
and his helm cracks, yet still remains intact. For a moment, a long moment,
he is nearly pinned by the blow, before he pushes back with all his might at
the sable shield, and staggers backwards, standing once more.

Melkor totters slightly because the hurt leg cannot carry all his weight
anymore but he regains his balance soon. He makes a step toward Fingolfin
swings his left arm and hits the elf, with his shield hard. Before Fingolfin
recovers from the shock, Melkor's shield pins him against the ground again.

A moment of rest, a moment to draw breath. Such simple things, now denied, a
memory. Fingolfin staggers under the second blow, falling to his knees once
more. His helm is nearly cloven, and the metal of his shield groans at the
shuddering force of Morgoth's hit. Pinned, he fights to free himself,
finally rolling away and regaining his breath once more. He raises Ringil
more in defiance, and darts towards his enemy again, his eyes filled with
desperate rage.

Melkor raises and walks, or hobbles, against charging Fingolfin. He stares
into his eyes, and this hypnotizing gaze seems to drain the remaining bits
of Fingolfin's power while Melkor appears to grow stronger, despite all his
wounds and lost blood. One, two clumsy steps, and Melkors towers over the
defiant elf and squishes him with his shield before Fingolfin can react.

Fingolfin struggles to get free but he is too weak to fight the weight of
Melkor's shield and its master. Suddenly, Melkor lifts the shield, throws it
away, and--before the dazed elf can do anything--stomps on his chest with
his right leg, the one that has not been harmed yet. He spits down at
Fingolfin's head and hisses, "I will crush you like a bug. Like a two-legged
bug with delusions of grandeur you are. Wolves will feast on your rotting
flesh. Orc infants will play with shreds your `wonderful' sword."

Weary unto death, and yet undaunted, Fingolfin struggles under the weight of
Morgoth's shield. And then a brief respite as the shield is lifted, and
Fingolfin tries to roll away. Yet the earth around him is rent, and slick
with the blood of his foe. He slips even as he tries to rise, and then the
moment is gone forever.

The weight of Morgoth's foot bears down upon his chest, crushing, forcing
the breath from his body. No use the bright mail, the cloven helm or the
battered shield; they are no match against Morgoth's sheer weight.

And then Fingolfin raises his head, pain leaving him for a moment, for a
light shines down from the darkness. With wondering eyes he looks up, and
there beholds in the Iron Crown the Silmarils, and the unsullied Light
shines forth from them, light that was before the Moon and Sun, long ago in
Valinor. He smiles suddenly, sadly, and raises Ringil in one last gesture of
defiance. Summoning his last strength Fingolfin slashes at the leg just
above the foot, feeling mail and flesh give way. And then steaming blood
washes over him, and he drops his sword. A final breath, and then the light
fades from his open eyes. So passes Fingolfin, son of Finwe.

Melkor screams out, and this scream is louder and more horrifying than any
other sound that has ever left Melkor's mouth save from the shriek following
Ungoliath's attack because the final strike of Fingolfin came in the very
moment of Melkor's triumph and bite deeper than his former hits. Melkor
reels badly, and almost topples over with both legs hurt badly. As soon as
balance is regained, Melkor grabs Fingolfin crushed corpse, and throws it
against the ground, shattering all remaining bones that have not been broken
so far. Then he grabs the corpse again, and hobbles towards the gates,
summoning Gaurs, wolves, and other carnivore beasts of Angband.

Yet the wind rises.

The winds arise out of nowhere, a lashing of air hammering from the west, a
great sudden gust of cold, of voices faded into drawn out whirls of air but
still retaining a harshness to their whispers in the greater choir of anger!
The anger of the West!!

On that very wave of resentment, on that crest of furious air - Down speeds
Thorondor, Vassal of Manwe! The dive begun far above the peaks of
Thangorodrim, out of sight from those of lesser eyes, down straight as the
drop of a stone down a well he plummets! The wild spirit within tearing out
with his voice - A predatory and immensely sharp shriek at the Vala on the
ground, the sound spreading like a tidal wave to bounce off the walls of
Angband.

The great wings flare thirty paces wide to either side as he begins to break
the descent, bringing his huge yellow and black talons to bear. The light of
the righteous fury of a saddened soul at long last taking action shining
forth out of his golden eyes.

Melkor turns around, as fast as his hurt limbs allow, and looks up. He
raises his hands to protect his head instictively when he sees a giant bird
descending on him but the bird's attack is too swift.

Great talons rend the accursed flesh, rending the fallen Vala's face as the
mighty wings beat, the sound of them like the winds of Manwe, on which the
King of Eagles is borne. Again he shrieks, the cry piercing, fierce, and his
golden eyes focus for a moment on Morgoth.

And then he stretches out his talons, lifting the body of the elf even as
Morgoth throws up his hands. One mighty beat of his wings, and then another,
and Thorondor rises into the sky, carrying his burden southwards, into the
clear unsullied sky.

Melkor looks at his empty hands, then he touches his scratched face.
Surprisingly, he remains silent now, the shock of Thorondor's sudden attack
left his speechless (or screamless?). He looks at his empty hands again, and
for a brief moment, his facial expression suggests he is going to burst into
tears. He fights the urge with all his will, his face returns to a stony
mask...a stony mask torn by Thorondor's talons..., and frustration from his
pyrrhic victory is contained and dissolved into a dark fuzzy cloud that
makes Melkor's mind even darker. Slowly, very slowly, Melkor walks back to
his throne to treat his wounds and plan a revenge.
