
Thorondor A ADM Eagle

Bear

Fairfax

Arato

Finnabair

Fairfax says, "Cookies!! :)"

Thorondor smiles..

Arien grins

Arato says, "where's the milk?"

You say, "I brought the cookies, get your own darned milk ;p"

Arato heads out into the hallway.

Arato has left.

Arato comes in from the Hallway outside.

Arato has arrived.

Arato says, "got milk"

Arien sorries and is having typing problems today. "Anyway, now that we're
all here, I would first like to let you know that the meeting is being
logged ant posted to the admins website, ok?

Thorondor settles down, conjuring up a huge reading chair to sit in,
attentive and expectant as to the order of the meeting.

Arien smiles. "Well, the first order of business, is to make sure everyone
knows what the meeting is all about. So... I guess I should ask if everyone
has read the Dagor Bragollach outline?

Fairfax sits mighty comfy on Thor's lap. "Yup, have read it."

Thorondor nopes, "I have barely browsed it - My online time hasn't been the
best."

You say, "Would you like to take a moment to read it, Thorondor? It's Dagor
1...."

Thorondor balances Fairfax and starts readin, "Continue, I'll be done in 120
secs."

Arien chuckles and continues. "Ok, then... since you all have read/are
reading it, are there any general questions about the outline before we get
into specifica?"

Finnabair says, "Will there times put to these events you've come up with?"

Arien nods. "The major events, such as the Council, the beginning of the
seige, things like that, will be dated and announced well in advance, as
will any TPs that are integrated into the outline by you all. Minor events
will be done in the usual way-- people contacting each other and arranging
spontaneous RP.

Finnabair says, "That's somewhat vague"

Thorondor thinks it sounds alright so far. Too tight control in a MP renders
people unhappy.

Finnabair says, "Well, I'm rather unhappy right now, since this spells the
end of my culture. I would like to have some idea of how long I have left to
be in it."

You say, "More specifically, the DB itself should begin in January; this was
a time set by the GAs as a whole to coincide with when the MUSH has
traditionally been most active."

Finnabair says, "You think the mush will be ready and able to handle the DB
by January?"

Thorondor nods, "That's a point that needs to be adressed, do we want to
eradicate Dorth completely? Cannot some parts survive in our world?"

Finnabair says, "Obviously not something that's every been considered when
the GAs decided to run the DB."

Fairfax says, "It sends us back to the question of following the
Silmarillion to the letter or choosing to do an alternate reality here
<shrugs>"

Finnabair says, "Exactly why are we opting to run the DB?"

Fairfax ventures "because it's in the Silmarillion and that is the world we
are playing here?"

Finnabair says, "I'm aware of that"

Fairfax says, "So why *not* run it?"

You say, "First of all, I do in fact think the MUSH will be able to handle
the DB by January. That is one reason why the planning is starting so far in
advance-- to make sure things are in place before the actual battle"

Finnabair says, "How would you say we're able to handle the DB when the MP
has had problems?"

Arien smiles and wonders if perhaps we might address one question at a time?

Finnabair says, "These are all related"

Thorondor ques up after Finnabair in question line.

You say, "Well, as I said, I do think that we will be able and ready to run
the DB by January. You raise a valid point, in that the MP has had some
problems, though I would point out that it has also had some successes.
Nothing will ever go 100% smoothly; we're all too human for that. I think
what is most needed is a greater understanding on what roles you as CAs will
play, and what role I will play. That will alleviate some of the problems
that happened earlier. <more>"

You say, "As for the reasons the gAs decided to go forward with the DB,
there are many. One of the main reasons is that it has been on hold for a
long time, and a source of debate. But the fact is, that the mUSH.. has to
either go forward or re-define itself, because there has been a lot of
stagnation. When I was brought on as a GA in April, the DB was assigned to
me then, and I have been working on it ever since. I hope that helps the
understanding?""

Arien is done, and waits Thorondor?

Finnabair says, "I don't believe this mush is populated enough to handle the
DB. For example, we have 6 active players in Angband. How do you propose
they will manage the sheer volume of rp needed and will they do it well?
This is a big event worthy of being done well. If I'm going to be forced to
lose my culture, I'd rather not do it to a badly organized mega-tp. And if
you've been working on it since April, why is this month the first we've
heard of it?"

Fairfax raises her arm with a half-baked idea...

Arien nods to Fairfax

Bear notes it's 6 regulars in Angband, 24 active.

Finnabair says, "Either way, there are 6"

Fairfax says, "Well, in regards to the Angband fellows and their lack of
manpower, perhaps it would be possible to resort to alt characters? Not all
PCs from goodie cultures will have IC reasons to be in the Dagor, so why not
allow those players alts in Agband, if it's feasible? It would increase
numbers..."

Arien smiles and nods to Fairfax. "I have been discussing with Torghaal on
increasing the RP in Angband, to be quite honest. It is a concern and it is
being addressed. Certainly, alts are an option, it is something that you can
as CAs discuss with Torg on that, as in any alt situation. I think, as long
as the alt was commited to playing there, and not just for hack n' slash, so
to speak, that they will be welcome there

Elendreth comes in from the Hallway outside.

Elendreth has arrived.

Fairfax okie dokies :)

You say, "As far as your other question, Finnabair, I have not announced the
DB before now because we were doing the Nargo TP, and because i wanted to be
able to present an outline that was at least recognisable as coherent. =)"

Finnabair says, "The Nargo TP did nothing to stop you from talking to
players about the DB, especially as they could have helped you with the
timeline."

Arien really wanted to handle one MP at a time... but, be that as it may,
are there any other general questions? Or ones that have not been answered
fully, before we go on?

Finnabair sighs

Thorondor has the same question as asked before, general outline: Is there a
need to eradicate the entire Dorth really?

Elendreth says, "I'm sure no one would mind if it's not ..."

Thorondor concern lies with what would be acceptable for Dorthonion really,
so the question is really made with that in mind. Under what conditions
could we keep that culture alive and active, how would that be achieved...?

Camuril says, "So are things still bantering or have they wound down?"

You say, "As far as Dorthonion goes, I would say that it is something that I
would like to meet personally with all the Dorthonion CAs about. I intend to
meet with each culture seperately to work out how this is going to affect
them, and I don't think that the situation can be resolved within the scope
of this meeting"

Thorondor nods, it needed being said though. :)

Thorondor waveurs Camuril on over on the Arb side of the room, us huge manly
muscle persons ;P

Arien nods and agrees. "I just do not want to slight Dorthonion by trying to
solve the culture's needs within the scope of a general meeting. They
deserve their own meeting. Each culture does.

Camuril wanders over to Thorondur, but plants a flag firmly next to him
<MITHRIM>

Finnabair says, "There is a lot to consider before going through with it"

Arien nods

You say, "Are there any other general questions before we go on? I know
there is a lot to consider, but, I really want this to be an exchange of
ideas. If there are no other general questions, I would like to continue..."

You say, "Well, moving on, then, I would like to ask you, what it is you
expect of me as TP-coordinator in all this. In turn, I'd like to let you
know what I'm hoping from you all. I think, if we know beforehand what our
roles will bem that the whole thing will go that much smoother... sound
good?"

Elendreth says, "Sounds ... rational."

Elagil has arrived.

<OOC> Elagil says "Hello all, I have come like I could..."

Finnabair says, "Yes, when the mystery is taken out of it, when we actually
work together and think on the reality of the situation it might go better.
Arien, if you're coordinating it I would expect you to do just that."

You say, "Anyone else? Please, this cannot be done without your input, and I
would like to hear from all of you.""

Finnabair says, "Unfortunately this is a small meeting"

Camuril says, "Sounds like a viable thing to me. What do you need me to do?
Or is this input time?"

<OOC> Elagil says "is it the end or the begining ?"

Elendreth says, "I've got something ..."

You say, "Elendreth, please, go ahead"

Elendreth says, "Isn't it quite early to ask such questions? At least I
can't make up with any demands for you in the role of coordinating this when
there's no outline of the part my culture will play on Dagor, or at least
I'm not aware if any preliminary scetches exist."

Arien smiles. "Perhaps if I let you know what I would expect of you, that
would help?

Elendreth says, "That could indeed. :) Well?"

Elagil says, "Was Elendreth the first to speak or was there some before ?"

Arien nods. "So far, what you have seen posted is a general outline, right
now a very preliminary outline. There is a reason for this. What I expect of
you as admins, especially of the CWs, CVs, and CTs, is to work with me to
define your culture's role in all this. For example, after the Nargo MP but
before the seige, there is a lot of leeway to fit in cultural TPs in the
midst of the larger framework. I am not going to dictate those to you; I
want you to let me know what it is you expect your cultures to be doing. I,
in turn, will be working to mesh the various tPs together, and facilitate
the cultures' working together. Once we reach the actual DB, again, smaller
TPs are the province of the cultures, and I would be working towards keeping
it unified. Does that help?

Arien is done now...

Camuril says, "Being at school and not having my books with me (and not
memorizing the Silm :) I'm pulling this from memory. Basically what I read
as having to be done is a) we get a ttacked a bunch. b) This provokes a
council (which all northern cultures should attend Feanorian, Dorthonion,
Mithrim, etc etc) c) We decide on war and gather armies. The rest is self
explanatory. So I guess what I would read as Mithrim's job would be to start
adding tension in city. Increased forge activity, training, etc. The higher
ups to rp plans, councils, whatnot. And the general populace to get the
drift we're going to war. I somehow see other cultures doing the same stuff.
None of that really requires much other than a cultural motd and people to
rp accordingly. What becomes problematic is the coordinating of the various
cultures together for councils and the like but that is ieasy enough to get
around. I hope I don't sound like I'm rambling here."

Elendreth says, "Did you say something, Ari. I suddenly had couple of blank
lines, I think the game lost it for me. Could you repeat it?"

You say, "I'll page it =)"

You say, "Did you get camuril's comments, Elend, or do you need them paged
too?"

Elendreth says, "I got it."

Elagil rises his hand

You say, "Go ahead, Elagil"

Elagil says, "Wb :)"

Arien sorries, and lost con after Elagil asked to speak =/

Elagil will page you what I said

You say, "have I missed anything else?"

Elagil pages: "Actually Camuril, it didnt happened exactly so, and there is
something missing in the outline methink, it's peace. We were at peace
before DB and the only aware of angband threat were Fingolfin, feanor son
and perhaps aegnor, and people werent hearkening them for they loved the
situation as it was. I know we are far from the book frame of time or
history, but I do think we could set some months (years) of peace just after
the siege being laid again. Then morgoth attack.

Elagil pages: "About what I expect from you Arien as tp coordinator is that
you become Ms Dagor Bragollach, that you be the reference thematic and oocly
for question we might have about at time when we'll set tp and discuss them
with you and other. And I think the usbject is ambitious and large enough to
require all your attention like Finna said.

Elendreth says, "You pretty much mentioned the demands we (I) might have for
you yourself, Arien. I got to get going soon. I trust we're about to have a
similar meeting after Arien has gone through with the discussing/planning of
each cultures' part with the CAs of the culture in question, so that those
plans can be brought to everyone's attention and discussions made about how
they fit with each other."

Arien nods to Elendreth. That is so. And, if I might speak to Elagil's
comment to Camuril?

Elagil says, "I think silence was yes Arien :)"

Finnabair has to head out, "Thanks for the meeting."

Finnabair heads out into the hallway.

Finnabair has left.

Elendreth heads out too, "Thanks everyone for you time and effort & such.
Laters."

You say, "I know that there were hundreds of years of peace in the book,
along with the seige. I know what happened; it simply is not what has
happened here. So, right now there is no peace, but, as we are currently not
beseiging Angband, there has to be a reason for the seige, hence the
attacks. And then, once Angband is beseiged, it will look pretty much like
the pre-DB Silmarillion."

Arien will be getting back to you for meetings

Elagil rises his hand

Arien nods

Thorondor would really like a log of this later on with my connection loss
:P

Fairfax seconds Thor :(

Arien will be posting this and tonight's meeting to the admins website. the
addy is listed in -admhelp website

You say, "and go ahead, Elagil"

<OOC> Camuril needs to poof. "I'll catch up with you folks as to the
finale."

Elagil says, "Yes it's was I was meaning with 'far from book frame of time'.
But what I'd like is just after siege, having a time of lasting piece, not
hundreds year of, just some to 'stick' with the mood of the book. Time past
quiet fast so it wont be a prob I think, letting angband time to play home,
training etc. I think morgoth will be shaken enough even if barely just
after the sige to not counterattack immediately. And some people could think
the siege is quite enough for now while some will say, bear the war inside
angband. About what Finna said, about the time the db last, Ithink we could
turn into some real time here, only for the db."

You say, "Well, in the Silmarillion, there WAS no after the seige =) the
seige lasted until Morgoth attacked. Same here. We will have the seige, it
will last for some IC time (remember, 1 RL month is 3-4 IC months!) and then
Poof! Fire, destruction, battle, bad hollywood acting... ermm.. well, you
see?"

You say, "As for the DB itself, it only lasts 3-4 months.... it lasts for
one winter. That's it"

Elagil says, "I dont understand, pardon :)"

You say, "There was no time between the seige and the DB in the
Silmarillion. The reason the seige ended was because of the DB"

Fairfax has a question, afterwards...

Arato says, "that would be 100 percent correct"

Elagil will answer after Fairy

You say, "Go ahead then, Faxxie =)"

Fairfax's question brings a different topic, so she'll wait until the
current one is exhausted.

Arien nods

You say, "Elagil, then"

Elagil says, "Halt me if I am wrong, but I think the siege was reset when
Glaurung missed his sortie against us 200 year before now. So indeed, the db
marks the end of the siege, but there some lasting peace before. We cant
have it for the beleriand is what is is now, but I was meaning just a bit of
peace, not 200 year. And not having morgoth break the siege as we will
barely reset it before his doors."

Arien understands what you are saying, Elagil, but how long are you
proposing RL? a year? two? a month? I am trying to balance returning us to a
pre-DB state of things and what can be reasonably RPed

You say, "This, btw, isn't a criticism, I am honestly trying to understand
what you are asking here"

Elagil would say "hmm 3 months. nearly a ic year. it would let us time for
non war tp, such are happening in Falas. time to have different rp and rp in
this world a last time. For after all will change and culture will disapear.

You say, "Well, we have all of October, November, December, and part of
January. Because we are also trying to do the dB when the MUSH is most
active, and that is generally January, Feb at the latest"

Fairfax says, "Maybe we can have December and a bit of January to play that
more peaceful period? It means we'd have to hurry with all the other topics
Arien proposed before December (The preparation, the siege...)"

Elagil agrees with Fair

Fairfax says, "Question is: is it possible to prepare everything on time? Or
feasible... <shrugs>"

Arien nods and has no problem with that. Also, remember that there is
absolutely NO reason other TPs cannot go on throughout the whole thing
leading to the DB. That is why the outline looks so "incomplete" it is for
you all to help fill in... eh?

Fairfax smiles :)

<OOC> Elagil says "Is there only us three ? :)"

<OOC> Elagil says "Thor, Ara ?"

You say, "Is it possible? I think it is, actually. If we co-operate, the
actual DB,... is more a matter of scheduling. Ince we get to the battle, we
all know what happens ;) if not, I'll hand out copies of the Silm... leave
the battle to me... at least for now"

Thorondor was out of it for too long to really feel able to contribute much
at this time :P

You say, "No opinions on any of it, Thoron? anything would be appreciated"

Arato says, "same here"

Arato says, "I think we should have 'set dates as to when everything is
gonna happen"

Arato says, "that way there will be no hurt feelings etc."

Elagil says, "Also... how do you plan all the true db, the after siege ?"

Arato says, "taking some time to lead up to it is, I think, a good idea.
Everyone will be able to have some 'peace-time' play...so we start the DB
around January?"

.

Thorondor has to mind his right, so, in short, "I think a peaceful period
would be good yes, but only from the aspect of using the period to get ready
for the rather intense massmeeting rp that will occur, we know that we will
grow temporarily from such events, it's that we have to hold onto it that we
need to fix."

Elagil says, "a word"

You say, "go ahead"

Elagil says, "So we all agree in some peace before, a few month with begin
of battle in early january, orc will ready themselves, we have a new balrog,
he'll be able to play home a bit too and we will in the meanwhile feast and
forget about last struggle of laying siege, then db comes by surprise."

You say, "exactly"

Elagil sets this in marble then

You say, "Ok... other questions? I will get with cultures on their roles,
so.. please, set your TPs.. it you look at the outline, we have already
begun the preparation stage =)"

Fairfax can't really think of more questions, right now.

Elagil says, "so do I"

Thorondor smiles, "My contribution to this wasn't large to begin with...I
have nothing further, at this time."

Arien nods. "I will leave it to you how you want to deal with the DB
in-culture. If you want to announce it individually, or keep it a dark
myustery ;) or want a public post, that I leave to you to decide, ok?

Fairfax will report to Celvir and let *him* decide (ah, the advantages of
being mere CS ;)) Heh!

Thorondor will consult deeply with the Crissaegrim eagles. Hmm-a-hmm. Done.
=)

Arien beats Thorondor silly... ummm sillier

Thorondor notes that is a impossible thing to do ;P

Arien smiles and would like to thank you all for coming. I know that this is
a big change, and it is going to be hard for some people. But I have the
utmost faith in you all, and in the other GAs, and I know that we can make
it work. I'll be getting back with each of your cultures, and we will
continue to meet during the preparatuion and even through the DB if
necessary.

You say, "And then I'll be taking a vacation ;)"
