Arien

Mystamuinael

Glinirnaeth

Kartinal Master Diplomat

Emeldir

Finnabair

Erathil

Dror Lord Narag

You say, "Ok, well, before we begin, I want to let you know that the meeting
is being logged, and will be posted for your convenience on tha admins
website. Oh, and Elagil won't be coming; he says it is late for him =) But
he was able to attend part of this afternoon's meeting"

Erathil says, "Elagil looks to be looking to sleep, he says, having already
come to the earlier meeting."

Dror says, "I consent to being logged. ;>"

Arien smiles. "You may page, raise hands, or just throw a question out onto
the floor, as long as the meeting remains orderly, I don't care so much for
the format. That means no throwing cookies... Shall we begin?

Emeldir nods.

Dror also nods.

Mystamuinael nods..and looks for the cookies

You say, "All righty... I am going under the assumption that you have all
read the original DB outline and the subsequent posts, and hopefully the log
from this afternoon. So, before we get into specifics, are there any general
comments you wish to make?"

Dror says, "Can we come up with a better term than "goodie" and "good
cultures" for all non-Angband cultures?"

Dror says, "For example, Feanorian and Nogrod do not perhaps fit the
traditional definition of good."

Arien nods. NP with that... I was looking for a better term.. perhaps
Non-Angband cultures would work best as a general term?

Dror says, "Fair enough. 'Tis trivial, really. ;>"

Arien will refer to them as the NAC for short, then? =)

Dror says, "Alrighty. ;>"

Dror says, "I have no problem with the outline. Let's do it. :>"

Dror says, "Anyone have any issues they want to raise? Problems, concerns..?
;P"

You say, "anyone else? General questions or concerns? =)"

Finnabair says, "The whole thing is a problem"

Mystamuinael wonders what the physical changes to Bel will be, if any?

Dror says, "Please qualify your statement, Finna?"

Arien opens the floor to Finna, and then will get to your question, Myst,
ok?

Mystamuinael nods

Finnabair says, "Just continue"

You say, "Dror had asked you to qualify your statement. If you wish to do
so, you have the floor, Finna"

Finnabair says, "It's moot, continue"

<OOC> Finrod. waves.

Arien shrugs. "To answer your question, Myst, there are a few major changes
that would take place, and some minor ones. The major changes would
obviously be to Dorthonion, obviously, and on that matter I would defer to
Erathil. Feanoria would be driven back to Himring, and some of them goto
Nargothrond. But their player base is out of Himring, yet I would like to
discuss that with them. Of course, some FCs will die, many of which are not
and have never been played, and new ones will open up. That's the summary,
at any rate

Dror says, "I would like to point out that in the books, the Dorthonion
culture is *not* wiped out right away at the end of the Dagor Bragollach.
Angrod and Aegnor are slain, as is Bregolas, but Barahir continues to hold
out. They are slowly driven away or killed off--quite a dramatic tale,
true--and Emeldir eventually leads many of the folk to Brethil. So perhaps
someday if we close the Dorthonion "culture" we will open Brethil instead.
But we need not even discuss this till after the Dagor Bragollach itself."

Finnabair says, "That's quite an easy thing to say when you're not in the
culture"

Arien opens the floor to Erathil, then

Emeldir admits to formulating plans for Brethil even now. ;)

Dror says, "Alright then, I'll say no more, as it is not my culture. I was
just trying to help show that things are less black-and-white."

Arien dangs and there go my plans for the Brethil Bed and Breakfast

Erathil says, "Dorthonion has had several meetings about this in the past
few years, and we've discussed what happens to us after the Dagor Bragollach
to death. I personally plan on moving to Brethil and opening that culture.
All of Dorthonion's players will be given the option to come there, or to
change cultures and go elsewhere."

You say, "Or play one of those who stays with Barahir, yes?"

Erathil says, "That's an option I'm giving in addition to coming to Brethil.
I know I'll be with Barahir as one of my characters."

Dror grins and will have to get an alt. ;>

Arien smiles and asks if you're done, Erathil?=)

Erathil says, "I am unless anyone has questions."

Arien wonders if anyone else has any general questions, as well?

Dror says, "Shall we talk about each of our cultures' plans now, or
individually with you later?"

Emeldir will discuss her plans with Arien--she has a few questions that
relate only to her character and canon.

You say, "As far as individual cultures, I would prefer to do those as
individual culture meetings, so that I can devote my full attention to the
unique needs and concerns of each culture, as well as discussing their role
in this, as they see it"

Finrod. nods. That sounds like a good idea, Arien.

You say, "Any other general questions? I know not everyone has spoken up,
so, please, feel free"

Dror says, "I have a question. After this will we continue to mirror events
in the Silmarillion--at our own rate as we see fit? Beren and Luthien, for
example? I guess my question is whether this is an attempt to re-coordinate
to the timeline of the books or whether we are taking a more leisurely
approach to it."

You say, "One of the reasons the gAs have decided to do the DB, Dror, is in
fact because there have been requests to make things more like the
Silmarillion. I would say it is safe to assume that we will continue in the
Silmarillion timeline, as best we may"

Dror says, "Alright."

Finrod. wonders if one of the Christopher T. books contains a timeline for
the First Age? Or should we try to construct one with dates for the various
major events?

Arien has seen a timeline somewhere, though our year dates would be
skewed... as we are not setting back the clock 6 years... or seven... ummm
to 455...

Dror says, "There are timelines, and those are JRR books, prepared for
publication by CJR. ;P We have a timeline in the Library in the Hangout. But
yeah, part of my question was, are we going to start following the
Silmarillion timeline year-by-year now?"

You say, "thant aside, I can produce one in short order, if you feel it
would be helpful?"

Glinirnaeth says, "The Encyclopedia of Arda has a pretty well-researched
timeline"

Finrod. says, "If we are going to be following it year by year, a timeline
would be helpful."

Arien nods to both Glinirnaeth and Dror. Those are both excellent sources.
And yes, we will be adhering to the Silm timeline, though it may not be at
the same pace... after all, we are human. I know I have had people ask me
about the 5th Battle, but... we have to remember that it would be a few
*years* away even in RL time

Dror says, "Sounds good."

Dror says, "So we are following the events of The Silmarillion at a
comfortable pace. :>"

Arien nods

You say, "anyone else? =)"

Finrod. says, "How soon do you anticipate the individual culture meetings to
start?"

Dror says, "Okay, I have another question. ;> Part of the reason why we are
doing the DB seems to be that prior to the DB in the books, there is a
period called the Peace of Beleriand or something. Now, while we have had
battles here and there, still nothing really big or earth-shaking has
happened. So now we have the DB to break up the stagnation, to move the MUSH
forward, and to open up the forces of Angband to bigger things. So my
question is, from then on, between the big things that happen in the books,
can we have big things happen of our own that are not, maybe, spoken of in
the books..? For example, when Glaurung is abroad, will he only be able to
weak havoc at the places he does in the books? Once that one Silmaril is
freed from Angband, can we have big plots to have it change hands a little
more often than it does in the books, etc.? Sorry if this is outside the
scope of this discussion and a little far in the future. Sorry also about
the length. ;>"

You say, "as soon as possible but not tonight ;) I will post my schedule and
it you CW/CV types could contact me to let me know when is good for your
culture, I'll be there"

Finrod. nods. Ok. Thanks.

Glinirnaeth says, "Aside from the fact that it will be quite a while until
the quest of the Silmaril, I would advise against letting the Silmaril
change hands more often than it does. The consequences would be grave."

You say, "as for your question, Dror, as in the past, yes, big events will
be allowed even if they are not specifically mentioned in the books. That
will not change, and in fact, it is our hope that the DB will allow more
leeway for that"

Arien nods to Glinir. I agree with you completely on that, Glin.

Dror says, "Thanks Arien."

Arien nods. NP.

Dror says, "And no, I don't agree with Glinirnaeth, but that is outside the
scope of this discussion really. ;>"

Dror says, "Er rather, I agree that consequences would be grave, but that
wouldn't necessarily be a bad thing. ;>"

Arien will leave that to the Nogrod and Feanorian admins ;)

You say, "Which does actually bring me to my next topic if there are no more
general questions?"

Dror says, "No further questions, your honor."

Finrod. has no further questions.

You say, "Ok, well... if there are any further general questions, let me
know and we'll get to them. I know one of the problems the Nargo MP has
faced is a problem with understanding our roles in it, as admins, and me as
the TP-coordinator. So... I'd klike to comment on what my expectations are
for you as CAs and for me as TP coordinator, and then I would like to here
from you what you expect of me. This way, we'll all have an understanding of
our roles and be better able to communicate. Ok?"

Finrod. nods and listens.

Emeldir nods as well.

You say, "So far, what you have seen posted is a general outline, right now
a very preliminary outline. There is a reason for this. What I expect of you
as admins, especially of the CWs, CVs, and CTs, is to work with me to define
your culture's role in all this. For example, after the Nargo MP but before
the seige, there is a lot of leeway to fit in cultural TPs in the midst of
the larger framework. I am not going to dictate those to you; I want you to
let me know what it is you expect your cultures to be doing. I, in turn,
will be working to mesh the various TPs together, and facilitate the
cultures' working together, along with furthering the overall "plot." Once
we reach the actual DB, again, smaller TPs are the province of the cultures,
and I would be working towards keeping everything united and running
smoothly, mediating between cultures, that sort of thing. Doesn't mean that
I won't throw in TP ideas of my own, but YOU are each the experts on your
own cultures. And that's how I see our roles. Hope that helps."

Arien opens the floor to let you all tell her what she needs to be doing ;)

Dror says, "Nogrod has an idea of a TP that will help lead into the DB, at
least for Dwarves, Feanorians, Angband, and Mithrim/Dor-lomin. We will keep
you updated :>"

Arien nods

Finrod. says, "Arien, would you like us to let you know what small,
culture-specific tp's each of us is planning? Because of the change-over in
administration and the connect problems the previous admins had, Nargothrond
did not have many tps over the summer. We are just starting to work into
some smaller tp's at present. A couple should be set in motion this Saturday
at the festival and farewell party. We are starting fairly small, however,
until we can build up a larger player base. I can fill you in with the
details later, if you would like."

You say, "I would like that very much, Finrod."

Finrod. nods. Ok. I'll let you know after the meeting is over or send -mail.

You say, "anyone else?"

Finnabair says, "You're really going to have fun editing me and my discos
out of this log"

Erathil says, "I have a question..."

Arien nods to Finna

Dror says, "On the contrary, Finnabair, that's the most interesting part.
;>"

You say, "go ahead, Erathil...""

Erathil says, "And sorry I've been silent so long. You said in the earlier
meeting that you hope to start the DB itself by January, and I'm all in
agreement. But what of the pre-DB outline that you posted to DAGOR bb?
Should we not start into that almost right away, if we want to have the
stage ready for the DB after the new year?"

Glinirnaeth has a question now, too

Erathil says, "The outline mentions a great Council: We should probably
start planning for that even now."

Arien nods. Yes, we should. And some of that groundwork has already been
laid with Angband.... and I want to get working on the attacks and the
Council asap.

Emeldir says, "Where will the Council be held?"

Dror says, "Mithrim probably."

Orome told me he would expect the DB to begin in about half a year. January
is a bit earlier than that.

<OOC> Glinirnaeth says "Acks"

<OOC> Glinirnaeth says "Acks"

<OOC> Glinirnaeth says "I said that :P"

Finnabair says, "I agree, that's early"

Emeldir chuckles, and assumes that was Glinirnaeth speaking just before? :)

Arien smiles. That's one of the things we have to decide together. Speaking
for the only time tonight directly for Mithrim, yes, it would make sense for
the council to be held there, but speaking for both Mithrim and as GA, that
is open to compromise.

Finrod. thinks Mithrim would be a good location and make sense in theme.
Himring would also make sense.

You say, "As far as your question goes, Glinir, when we discussed this as
GAs the plan was to hold the DB in mid-January, but I will speak with Orome
to see if this is a mis-communication somewhere along the line or what, ok?"

Glinirnaeth says, "I think January is very early, given that we are not even
home from Nargothrond"

Erathil says, "We can all leave Nargothrond after Saturday's festival. I
myself plan to be in Dorthonion a week from today."

Dror says, "It's plenty of time ICly."

Glinirnaeth says, "But not OOCly"

Dror says, "Distances are not that long, and we have about 4 months RL till
then which is roughly a whole IC eyar."

Dror says, "Yeah it is. ;>"

Glinirnaeth says, "September is almost over, Dror, that makes it 3 months"

Dror says, "It's mid-September and the DB is in mid-January. ;P"

Arien thinks that as long as we communicate and all work together, there
will be no problem with getting the battle done at that time.

Finnabair says, "I don't see the rush"

Dror says, "3 months is lots of time. 3 months before we even start the MP
is fine IMO."

Mystamuinael thinks that 3 months will go faster than we all think...:P

Glinirnaeth says, "We don't just have to organize the DB, but also the TPs
in between. Especially where they involve multiple cultures, coordinating
them will need effort and time. We had two months to plan the Nargo MP and
the DB will require much more effort."

Mystamuinael says, "Exactly..."

Finnabair says, "Three months is very short to prepare for all of this, I
see no reason why we can't push it till we're ready"

Arien smiles. Everything we do up until then is sheer preparation. As far as
rushing, this is 3-4 months before the actual battle. As far as the timing
goes, the idea was to have it when the MUSH is normally most active.

Glinirnaeth says, "On top of that we have the holiday season pretty close to
the event..."

Finnabair nods, "A good point and you can't predict activity anyway"

Arien would like to point something out, if I may?

Finnabair says, "I mean, are we discussing this or just being told?"

Mystamuinael says, "For what it is worth, I think that 3 months is not a
great deal of time, but it is plenty, IF we make sure that we keep to a
schedule."

You say, "I have been asked to provide a set time when this would take
place. Mid-January is the time that had been discussed originally with the
other GAs, but, as Glinir has been given a different time by Orome, that I
was not aware of, I will discuss it with him. If there is to be a major
change due to that, of course I would let you know. As far as not setting a
target date, that will lead to more confusion."

Emeldir returns, orry.

Emeldir gahs.

Finnabair says, "If you could relay that some of us feel January is perhaps
too early, then"

You say, "s'ok, Emmie"

Finnabair says, "Where are the other admins, btw?"

Mystamuinael says, "I know I have no direct role in the DB, but it does
herald the beginning of the end for Gondolin. If we are to start this thing
rolling, we have to go for it. To stall or not be committed would be worse
than ignoring the fact that the DB happens at all. It affects ALL of us, so
we all need to be preparing for it."

Arien will relay that... if you could then suggest an alternate date?

Glinirnaeth shrugs. Maybe it was a misunderstanding, but I don't think
January is a wise time. It will most likely lead to rushed decisions and to
concerns not being met. If anything, the Nargo MP is testimony of how little
time of planning two months are.

Finnabair says, "I cannot answer any of your questions until I figure out
what's happening with my culture."

Dror says, "For the record, I do think January is reasonable. ;P"

Mystamuinael says, "As do I"

Finnabair says, "I really don't want to rush into this, so January is too
early"

Erathil says, "January is fine by me. The Nargo MP is rather a bad example,
if you ask me. As I understand it, it was delayed greatly because the two
people who were originally supposed to run it went inactive at the time it
was supposed to start."

Glinirnaeth says, "Such things happen"

Erathil says, "Three months of planning should be plenty of time, if the
people involved are committed to it."

Finnabair says, "It's too fast and there's really no rush"

Mystamuinael says, "Exactly my point"

Finrod. nods to Erathil about the Nargothrond mp. That is my understanding
as well. I wasn't an admin then, so I am not sure. From Nargothrond's point
of view, I think we could be ready by January.

Mystamuinael says, "For clarification, I agree with Erathil."

Glinirnaeth says, "We already had most of the Angband administration go
inactive for a month in the middle of a TP. With something as important as
the DB, such contingencies have to be prepared for."

Finnabair says, "First we need an Angband, period"

Mystamuinael says, "Angband will be ready"

Erathil says, "Angband is my main concern. My only concern, really."

Finnabair says, "What are they doing to ready for it?"

Dror says, "The longer you wait, the more likely people will go inactive. If
we get the current admins of each culture to commit to it now, in three
months they will all still be around."

Dror says, "Angband has more Actives than any culture besides the Falas. And
as I've always said, RP, especially big plots, bring in players. Waiting for
players before you RP doesn't work."

Glinirnaeth shrugs. But I don't think I will be able to convince anyone.
Dror, Myst, no oen can predict real life. I doubt Mandos or Alandil
_planned_ being ianctive. Such things happen, and we need to know in advance
how to deal with such situations.

Dror says, "That's valid. ;>"

Mystamuinael says, "Which is why I thin three months is actually too much
time...strike while the iron is hot...but Angaband will be ready."

Finnabair says, "Sorry, how will they be ready? The CW hasn't even shown up
for these meetings"

Erathil says, "'Active' players are not necessarily RPing players. Myst,
what makes you so sure angband can be ready by then?"

Arien is working extensively with Angband on their particular situation.
That is, I admit, a valid concern. Other than the presence of Angband,
however, the DB does not rely heavily on one particular culture, as the
Nargo MP did

Mystamuinael says, "I will do what I have to do to make sure that players in
Angband will be ready. I have an Alt there. If it takes me being on every so
be it."

Finnabair says, "The DB obviously requires that they be VERY prepared. I
think we need some assurances on that in order to be confident about it."

Glinirnaeth says, "it is not just the players, Myst. We had players in the
ES TP. We just didn't have admins to coordinate them"

Finnabair says, "I think we're going to be spreading ourselves really thin
on this"

Mystamuinael says, "I'll give you that. But, If we don't try it'll never
happen. I'm CV in Gondo. Just because I'm only a player in Angband doesn't
mean that I can't rally Angband to get this done. Even if it is just to keep
people informed."

Finrod. says, "I assume that, if there are not enough bad-guy players on
line for a particular small part of the battle, that the good-guy players
can emit some foes to fight against, right? We don't always have to have
combat against live bad guys, do we?"

Glinirnaeth says, "That practice cause a lot of bad blood in the past,
Finrod"

Erathil doesn't tolerate that sort of thing.:)

Erathil says, "But... not all NAC players will have their characters Icly be
at every battle of the DB. If they are not Icly there, can they not at least
play orch alts to help fill out the ranks when needed?"

Finnabair says, "That's what I mean about spreading ourselves thin. We're
going to have alts and temp alts and a million . FC's on the go. We're going
to end up rping with ourselves."

Erathil grins

Finnabair says, "Hardly a good way to go about doing this"

Arien would like to point out that the DB is not *just* about this huge
3-month battle

You say, "Three month OC, anyway"

You say, "gahh IC.."

Emeldirhates to admit it, but she's about to conk out on her keyboard. :/

Arien snugs and thanks you for coming, Emeldir

Emeldir waves

Emeldir heads out into the hallway.

Emeldir has left.

Finrod. waves to Emeldir.

You say, "If I may point out something about the DB?"

Glinirnaeth says, "Did I miss something?"

Mystamuinael nopes:)

You say, "I know we're all thinking in terms of big battles and everything
like that, and sure, the DB *has* all that, though to what extent we actally
play out each battle is our choice. But... there are all these people,
everyday people, who have to deal with the consequences of that battle. This
is their story, as much so as the FCs and the RRCs. How *does* someone who
has lived in Dorthonion for his/her entire life cope with the loss of a
homeland? How do you cope with family, friends, leaders being gone? Or, how
do you take opportunity of changes in political power? The DB is as much
about that as hacking orcs and elves and humans and dwarves to bits"

Glinirnaeth would like to say something about that....

You say, "What I'm really trying to say is, the DB is on paper. How we bring
it to life is *our* choice"

You say, "go aherad, Glinir"

Dror says, "I agree with Arien, a good majority of the RP will NOT
necessarily involve Angband players at all. :>"

Mystamuinael agrees with Dror

Finrod. agrees as well. I think there will be a lot of rp generated for
non-combat oriented characters.

Glinirnaeth says, "I'd be _very_ careful RPing such things. You can hurt
other people's feelings _big_ time. We have people on the MUSH who know
these feelings through first-hand experience or through close relatives. I
think care should be taken that those people do not get the impression that
they are lectured on how they should feel. As an aside, we have to see how
much of that truly comes to be. The Nargo TP was, per outline, a socializing
MP, and in the end, the majority of the organized scenes directly or
indirectly involved Angband"

Mystamuinael says, "I agree with you to a point , Glinir. But, If we wait
for Angabnd to be as active as we _want_ them to be, this will never happen.
We have to make do with what we have. Personally, I think it is enough. To
push it back any more will risk the chance that Angband will be less active
than it is now."

Dror nods.

Erathil excuses himself.

Erathil heads out into the hallway.

Erathil has left.

Finnabair does as well

Finnabair heads out into the hallway.

Finnabair has left.

Finrod. says, "While you make good points, Glin, I don't think those will be
serious problems. I really do think the Nargothrond mp was hurt because it
centered around two characters whose players went idle. Nargothrond also
lost almost all its admins at the same time. As far as people's rl feelings,
we should always be careful not to offend players in rl not matter what the
tp is. In the past, you have spoken of players who might not want to play in
a rp that involves "war." If so, they are welcome to join one of the
cultures that stays out of the battles until the very end. I would certainly
welcome them to Nargothrond."

You say, "Glinirnaeth, I understand and respect what you are saying, and I
would never dream to tell anyone how their character should feel about any
of this. And no, I am not intimately aquainted with war... however, I *am*
intimately aquainted with torture... so I will leave it at that and hope we
understand each other =/"

Dror nods to Finrod. "Tolkien's books are about war. The First Age
especially was filled with war. Now, war is certainly a bad thing, and
Tolkien lived through two of them... But I think people in general are
capable of separating themselves and their IC characters. That's why I am
able to play a corrupt character while I myself OOCly am pure good. ;>

Glinirnaeth disagrees

Arien chokes and watches Dror's RL nose growing

Mystamuinael grins

Finrod. laughs.

Dror says, "Bah!"

Glinirnaeth says, "Tolkien wrote mythology. he wrote about epic battles
between heroes. Reference to real war is very rare in Tolkien's works. He
knew the horrors that it brought with itself only too well. If we wanted to
reenact the DB as Tolkien saw it, it would be mainly a features-only event.
The armies are just there to set the stage."

Arien thinks the battle of the Pelannor Fields is pretty darn graphic

Dror says, "Tolkien did write about the horrors of war! When he spoke of
Emeldir leading the folk to a new home. When he spoke of Beren weeping for
his father, Morwen weeping for her husband. Azaghal and the Dwarves of
Belegost being wiped out by Glaurung. None of this was just setting the
stage."

Glinirnaeth thinks the Dagorlad is more intense

Glinirnaeth says, "Dror, all these are typical elements of sagas."

Dror says, "And that's the way we RP."

Glinirnaeth says, "But it's not "war""

Glinirnaeth says, "And for the sake of all of us, I will desist from getting
more precise"

Dror says, "That IS war in this world."

Mystamuinael says, "So, where to we go from here?"

Finrod. agrees with Dror. When we play the Dagor B, we will still be playing
the saga. Our characters, even the non-features are all "larger than life".
We are not playing the real people who get trampled in wars in the real
world. We are all the proud and mighty First Born, Second Born, and Dwarven
Lords.

Dror says, "I agree with Finrod on that."

Mystamuinael agrees with Finrod and Dror.

Dror says, "Where did Erathil go?"

Glinirnaeth says, "perhaps because you have the right professions ICly."

Arien thinks, perhaps, we need to take this issue on a culture by culture
basis, to give alternatives to combat to those who do not want to join in
it, for *whatever* reason. If we know of specific people in our cultures who
have problems with the situation, it is our job as CAs to work with them.
That's what we signed on as admins for, to help the players in our cultures
;)

Mystamuinael nods

Dror says, "That's good."

Dror says, "Why did Erathil leave? Are we pretty much done? It's getting
late. ;>"

You say, "No matter what, there are going to be people unhappy with the DB.
On the reverse, there are plaenty of people who have been UNhappy for the
lack of it"

You say, "Erathil had to leave for newbie purposes"

Mystamuinael says, "Exactly, Arien."

Dror says, "I see."

Glinirnaeth says, "Doesn't mean that they will be happy with it :)"

Glinirnaeth says, "Or when it's over"

Dror says, "Ooh, I have a question..."

Dror says, "Will Melkor come out and RP his big battle? ;>"

Mystamuinael agrees, But it has to happen nevertheless

Arien nods to you Glinirnaeth, and if I could make everyone happy, I would.
It would make my job so much easier and we could all be RPing right now =)

Dror says, "Well said Arien. :>"

You say, "Melkor said he would, so I hope so... I want to ICly call him
names before he beats the crud out of me"

Finrod. laughs and wants to see it. :)

Dror grins. "I won't miss that!"

Mystamuinael grins

Arien will sell tickets.. make lotsa money ;)

Finrod. grumbles. You get all the fun, Uncle. I just get to sing to Sauron.
;)

You say, "hey, you get nudie mud wrestling with gaurhoth, too.. don't forget
that"

Mystamuinael says, "Wooo! And I'll miss it:/"

You say, "Well, are there any motre pertinent or impertinent questions, or
can we wrap things up now? =)"

You say, "motre is somehow supposed to be 'other""

Dror says, "It could be "more" ;>"

Finrod. thinks we can wrap things up.

Mystamuinael votes for more

Dror says, "I move that Arien ammends her sentence... dang, that was
impertinent."

You say, "whatEVER =P"

Dror snaps his fingers and a hole opens up in the ground into which he
drops, and the hole reseals itself, leaving no trace...

Dror has left.

You say, "oooh one last thing!! HAH! You can't go yet!"

You say, "aaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhh"

Finrod. sits back down to listen.

Arien grumbles. "I just wanted to say that you may feel free to discuss this
with all members of your culture. If you want me to make a big post to
public, fine, else, just feel free atm to deal with player notification
in-culture, ok?

Finrod. nods.

You say, "If there are no more questions or comments, the meeting is
adjourned"
