Beleriand - Monday, August 28, 2000, 9:48 PM

--------------------------------------------

The First Meeting

Tiny-Plot Room

Welcome to the room of fabulous adventures, of tales and impossible events
thought up by all of the creative minds that has ever been, and possibly
still is, here on Beleriand the Beloved.

In this room sits a Msgboard, on which you as a player, any kind of player,
can read a short resume of a written Tiny Plot. You can pick one and bring
it to your Culture Tp-Coordinator (CT) and tell him/her that you wish to
play this one. The CT will then come here and review the full Tiny Plot as
it is written and laid out in the inner room, the Tp-Control Room.

You say, "Before we start anything important, let's give more people a
chance to connect."

You say, "Do you guys all know about the TP that's going on in Nargo right
now?"

Torghaal knows enough, he thinks.

Celvir says, "I assume you mean the one with the opening of the academy?"

You say, "The one involving the Yrch and Sauron.:)"

Celvir says, "I only know that there is fighting going on...is there more to
it than that?"

You say, "There sure is. We just haven't gotten that far.;)"

Celvir says, "Ah, well if you could fill me in at some point, that would be
great (since I seem to be the only active Nargothrond admin-type at the
moment.)"

Erathil nods, "I sent the original TP idea to Alandil_Finrod, since he was
the CW at the time, Celv."

You say, "But anyways, you've all probably noticed that a force of Yrch led
by Sauron himself has been roaming the wilds around Nargothrond."

Celvir nods. I understand. If you could just "cc" any -mail sent to me as
well, it would be much appreciated. :)

You say, "The skinny of it is that the people in Nargo would by this point
be extremely worried that their hidden city is on the verge of being
discovered by the Yrch."

Celvir smiles and nods. Undoubtedly.

You say, "Something has to be done to drive them away, but sending out a
large force to deal with the threat will only attract more attention to the
region, and that's the last thing that the elves would want, right?"

Celvir nods.

You say, "So the solution, as OOCly proposed by Baradil, was to have the
Nargo elves and their guests build a fake temporary settlement. A decoy, or
something to draw attention away from the real city of Nargothrond, and to
fool the yrch into thinking that all there is here is a small, fledgling
community of men."

Kartinal hmmmms ...

Celvir smiles. Sounds like a good plan...and should have good rp
opportunity.

Kartinal hmmmms ...

You say, "So what do you think, Kart?"

Glinirnaeth comes in from the Hallway outside.

Glinirnaeth has arrived.

Kartinal shakes his head.

You say, "Something wrong, Kart?"

Kartinal does't like the solution, but that must wait for another day, for I
must be off to bed, must wake up for school in the morning.

You say, "If you come up with a better idea, let me know, Kart.;)"

Kartinal heads out into the hallway.

Kartinal has left.

Celvir says "Where are you planning to put the fake village? I assume that
ICly it would be many days travel from the caves, so there would be no
chance of having the entrance spotted, right?"

You say, "It should be some ways away from the real city, yes, for those
reasons. I want to have a counsel RP held sometime this week so Finrod and
Fingolfin share their plan with the rest of the players, and then we can
send out people to ICly look for a good place to do it."

Finnabair says, "How are you going to erect a settlement that's of a
believable size and "look" to fool them?"

Elwen comes in from the Hallway outside.

Elwen has arrived.

Elwen says, "Sorry I'm late, bus"

You say, "Details details.;) The 'settlement' would be nothing more than a
huge encampment, and maybe the beginnings of something more permanent. The
trick is to make it look like a village is being contructed on the site...
it doesn't have to already be standing."

Finnabair says, "Again, size. How are you going to manage to make it big
enough for them to bother with and have it look like it's a real village?"

You say, "There are enough people, Icly, in Nargo to provide for a huge
encampment and to account for the small scouting parties that the yrch have
encountered so far. As I said, we don't have to have a standing village...
only what looks like the beginnings of one.:)"

Celvir says, "OOCly, What is supposed to happen once the fake village is
constructed? Is there going to be rp going on there, or will it just be a
battelground?"

Finnabair says, "Sounds like a moving army, really"

Celvir says, "I mean battleground...I do know how to spell"

Owael says, "The village would have to account for the presence of more than
a few elen lords."

Andranar comes in from the Hallway outside.

Andranar has arrived.

You say, "There will be Rp there initially, as we construct all that's
needed... and we'll get plenty of RP with the yrch as we Icly try to keep
them away from the place before it's ready. In time, though, they'll find
the fake 'village' and overrun it."

Elwen says "Well, but what elven lords have been seen by the orcs, really?
Fingolfin, Celegorm,

Fingon. Anyone else? (I may have missed) Emeldir for the edain, though that
is easier to explain"

Finnabair says, "What are we constructing exactly?"

Owael says, "That makes for really proeminent figures from more than one
part of Beleriand, not something usual."

Melian comes in from the Hallway outside.

Melian has arrived.

Melian waves

Elwen waves

Emeldir wonders why the orcs would know her? :)

You say, "In RP, we're likely to level out some land and to start building a
smallish village. We'd only do enough to make it look like we PLAN to raise
a town there, right? That's all we'd be able to do."

Elwen thinks a couple people yelled out your name, Emmie, durring battle....
and you know, that gaur menu listing ;)

Torghaal thinks that, ICly, Sauron might not buy it...too many major people,
'specially the elves. If it was a human village, why the elves?

Elwen can think of some reasons for the elves, actually...

Owael says, "Melkor knows the names of most of the leaders of good,
probably... spies and captures and so on."

You say, "Finrod and the edain of Dorthonion are very close. It's nothing
out of the ordinary for him to visit them... specially if they're starting a
new settlement somewhere."

Emeldir vows to get that guar beast yet. :P

Elwen says, "Not to mention that the lords of the Noldor have been known to
go out hunting, and Eithel Irvin is not so far away... maybe the elves are
planning some ridiculous monument to their might and all that stuff...
memory of Valinor, all that crud...? ;)"

You say, "These _are_ pretty good hunting grounds."

Owael says, "perhaps some sort of hunting camp would be enough to do the
trick?"

Erathil nods, "Maybe it would."

Torghaal chuckles, "It would explain it, as long as everything goes as
planned and we don't get really paranoid."

Elwen says, "Torg, surelyn Sauron knows the elven-lords are arrogant enough,
and the human ones just as bed? ;)"

You say, "I like the Blazing Saddles fake village idea myself, but hey,
whatever works works...;)"

Owael says, "Faking a village well would mean putting women and children
there. Big risk."

Camuril comes in from the Hallway outside.

Camuril has arrived.

Erathil nods, "I'm liking your hunting camp idea more and more, Owael.";)

Celvir says, "Actually, that is a good point. I don't think Finrod would
suggest anything that would endanger non-fighters. the "hunting party" idea
may be a good one."

Camuril waves to all

Tavarilyn comes in from the Hallway outside.

Tavarilyn has arrived.

Elwen says, "Since the only other way would be to have people disguised as
women... and I just cannot picture Fingon in drag..."

Tavarilyn can't HELP but LOL at that.

Camuril always walks in at the oddest times... "Can someone please tell me
why?" :)

You say, "How about Cardboard cutouts?"

You say, "Say, btw, can one or two of you guys log the meeting?"

Emeldir isn't sure that she understands where the idea of males disguised as
females comes from... but it's certainly a bit strange. :

Emeldir :P

You say, "Anyhow, Cam, we're talking about the current TP in Nargothrond."

Celvir is logging the meeting.

Camuril says, "Hmm aren't there some warrior-women about? Like Xoria? It
would make the village more realistic..."

Tavarilyn chuckles... "I'll happily volunteer my alt who's there. He's
destined to die or something anyway.

Elwen has a question?

You say, "Do you?"

Andranar says, "So we've definitely decided to run with the 'fake out the
baddies with the ruse of a camp/settlement', or whathaveyou then?"

You say, "We need to get the baddies out of Finrod's hair somehow. Got any
other ideas?:)"

Camuril says, "Perhaps a 'sneak attack' elsewhere to draw his attention? A
minor battle/skirmish?"

Elwen says, "I was wondering, really, if we have what looks like qa hunting
camp, and perhaps, we set up building supplies, to add it that air of...
legitamacy, that really, we do not have to worry what is being built, cause
perhaps the conflicts (I assume the orcs etc would attack us) would come
before the whatever-it-is is recognizable?"

You say, "Elsewhere would mean somewhere WAY off. If there's a battle
anywhere near Nargo, they'll still be suspicious of what is in this region."

Owael says, "and the idea of a fake settlement is original, too."

Celvir says, "I assume the real problem with the bad guys is that Sauron is
present, so they are too powerful to be caught with normal guerilla warfare
tactics, right? Maybe something can happen up north to draw Sauron back up
there? Then the rest of the yrch can be scattered through various rp
segments? Just a suggestion..."

Camuril says, "That's what I was thinking. Somewhere east of Nargo. But I
actually like the encampment trap thingy better though"

Erathil nods to Elwen, "I think that's what I was trying to get at. We
wouldn't actually put up a cardboard village. We would level out some land
and maybe start building something, so it -looks- like we're planning to
start a settlement there."

Camuril says, "Emphasis on 'start' eh? :)"

Elwen says, "We could even "lose" a few blueprints"

Owael says, "wouldn't a logical thing to de being wait the real settlement
of women and children, and attack it then?"

Erathil nods to Celv, "Even with the fake hunting camp/settlement, we may
likely need to do something else to draw Sauron's attention away from here.
He's a pretty clever fellow, I'll wager. So what can be done up north?"

Andranar says, "I'd favor the 'large hunting party' bit if we're going to do
it."

Elwen says, "Elagil had talked about wanting to do a TP to make a nothern
fortress at the edge of Hithlumand attack... just a thought"

Glinirnaeth says, "Regarding Owael's comment: What about something less
civilian and more militaristc, that they should attack before it poses a
problem... a watchtower, small keep...."

Torghaal would have to assume that the presence of the majority of the
goodies would thin out after the town was taken over, lest we realize that
there is something other than a towm/camp?

You say, "Torghaal would know better... but wouldn't Sauron, seeing that
there are so many important people in this hunting trip, choose to attack
right away instead of waiting? The hunting camp could disband."

Elwen says, "Like a smaller version of Tol Sirion, Glinir? that is a good
thought"

You say, "So, there's one bit of critical RP to be done before the decoy
part of this TP can start. We need a counsel between the IC leaders of all
the cultures in Nargo."

Andranar says, "That Tower TP has been on the planning board in D-l and
Mithrim for about 2 years now, Elwen.. That'd be seperate from this if we
ever do it.."

Elwen nods to Andy.

Celvir says, "The IC council is fine with me -- now that I am playing Finnie
as a temp, I will be happy to lead one...just let me know when."

You say, "Basically, the counsel will look something like this meeting, but
IC.;p"

You say, "I would like to see it RPd sometime this week, so we can begin to
ICly look for a place to set up the decoy, whatever we decide it should be."

Elwen only has evenings free until Sunday, unfortunately

Celvir says, "I am free pretty much any weeknight this week and all day
Friday, so whatever you folks want is fine."

You say, "Andranar, do you think you could be at the counsel if it was held
on one of the coming nights?"

You say, "Alright. I'll pose about the RP counsel as soon as we figure out
when to hold it. Does anyone else have anything else to add to that?"

Celvir says, "What happens next? I mean, we hold the counsel, we start
building the fake city, we have a tp out there and an attack...what happens
after that?"

Glinirnaeth says, "So what will be built?"

Elwen says, "We go home for a bit, fending off the forces of evil as we go,
Celvir?"

You say, "I think we're going with the large Hunting camp for now. After the
Yrch attack said camp, we all scatter and make their victory look
convincing. We'll all have to keep a very low profile then, and try to leave
Nargo without being spotted again."

Celvir says, "Hmmm, Nargothrond is still a pretty small culture OOCly. Are
we going to be going somewhere else to rp or are others going to be staying
with us?"

You say, "This is what I wanted to talk about next. What is everyone doing
after leaving Nargo?"

Torghaal is planning to attack you all as Angband and to jut go back to
Falas as Falas.

Andranar says, "Depends on how long we're there."

Celvir says, "Have we even accomplished the Nargo mp? Wasn't there supposed
to be an art academy opened or something? (I was not there when the mp was
created, but my understanding was that some type of school was going to be
started.)"

You say, "I thought that's what the festival and the feasting was for. I
missed out on that too, however."

Emeldir would like to return to Dorthonion, but that's just her. :)

Elwen says, "Welll... there was supposed to be an academy, but it was....
well, the two admins needed for it kinda vanished =/"

Elwen ICly wants Istadris to hang, Emmie ;)

Celvir says, "It would be nice to have some type of academy in Nargo where
people could rp classes and stuff. Are there any other admins who would be
interested in organizing something like that since we lost those two?"

Elwen says, "Well, the original concept was it would be in the realm, but
not inside Nargo proper"

You say, "I would advise we skip the Academy opening, unless it can be
organized and RPd out while we're all still in Nargo."

Celvir says, "If all the other cultures are planning to leave Nargothrond,
it would be better if the Nargothrond folks could travel somewhere else, so
there would be more rp opportunity. Any suggestions?"

You say, "You guys could come visit Dorthonion."

You say, "But what about everybody else? What do you guys have in mind,
Andy?"

Emeldir would be a most gracious hostess in Dorthonion, really. :)

You say, "Well, each culture needs to start thinking of what they're doing
after leaving Nargo. Maybe we could get some ideas posted up on the admins
BB? I still feel we need to keep at least several cultures together to make
finding RP possible."

Celvir says, "I agree."

Elwen says, "Mothrim has some reason to at least send a party toNargo..."

Glinirnaeth says, "We were already planning a multicultural TP before the
MP. Could pick that up again, maybe"

Owael says, "We have something planned that could involve some other
cultures..."

You say, "What's it about?:)"

Elwen acks and meant Dortho.. yikes

Camuril says, "mrg. I'm too idle to be of any good right now. I'll get the
skinny from elwen later. sorry folks"

Camuril says, "I've got a biochem lab at 8am anyway."

Emeldir is going to have to go shortly--even though I'm not going in to work
tomorrow, I still have to get up early.

Tavarilyn sorries for such a NASTY idle ;/

Emeldir says, "I would like to propose tha tDorthonion be the next place for
multi-cultural RP to move to though. :)"

You paged Elwen with 'I figure we all have to go SOMEWHERE for the first
part of the DB plan to happen. We'll go and run our own smaller TPs while
that pre-DB plot gets underway in the background.'.

Tavarilyn says, "I think for the time being that Gondolin will echo
Mithrim's movements... for theme reasons."

Glinirnaeth says, "I'm not sure if it is possible to fit it in...would like
to talk with Orome about it first. Has the potential to involve several
other cultures, some permanently, some at various times in between...could
go on for quite a while..."

You say, "We don't necessarily have to run one TP at a time. Several things
can be happening at once, you know.;) What's your idea about, Glin?"

Glinirnaeth says, "Building a wall :)"

You say, "A _great_ wall?:)"

Elwen kicks Erathil under the table

Glinirnaeth says, "We are said to have an inclination to build the grand
things :)"

Tulkas has arrived.

Elwen says, "well, it would make sense, as you have no natural defenses in
that area"

Erathil nods, "So a _grand_ wall, then. Something like that would take a
heck of a long time, but the start of it could be RPd. The planning and so
forth... it could easily be interrupted by other TPs, or could run in the
background even while different TPs are RPd."

Tavarilyn says, "Heya Tulk :}"

Tulkas says, "Hi folks."

Elwen says, "Ooh a Vala...""

Glinirnaeth says, "Well, it would obviously not be completed..."

You say, "'ey, Mistah T."

Glinirnaeth says, "Hi"

Emeldir waves

Elwen thinks that wall-building would annoy Morgoth right quick ;)

Torghaal nods

You say, "So, Mithrim, you guys want to go to Dorth to see some justice?;)"

Andranar says, "The wall thing has already been brought up by previous
players. It was discussed and decided that it wasn't that viable."

Emeldir chuckles, "Now that's a good reason for everyone to come to Dorth,
if ever I've heard one."

Glinirnaeth says, "Why not?"

Elwen grins at Emeldir

Owael says, "The wall thing could be seen as a preparation to the siege?"

Emeldir waves, "I'm barely keeping my eyes open, folks. I gotta head to bed.
good night, someone -mail me how the meeting turns out, please? :)"

Emeldir has left.

Elwen says, "If someone can get me a full log, in txt un-word-wrapped
format, I can post to my webpage"

Celvir says, "What do you folks think about the possibility of Nargothrond
going for a visit to Doriath? It might encourage rp in both of our cultures.
But I don't know if we have enough active players in either culture to make
it work."

You say, "I think the wall TP is at least a good enough idea to start. ICly,
the Yrch would be very likely to show up, eventually, and interrupt the
construction. That leads into the mini-siege idea that's posted."

Torghaal nods, "We'd try and stop it as fast as we could.

You say, "The problem with Doriath, Celv, is that it's so isolated from all
of the other cultures. I would advise that both Nargo and Doriath stick with
some of the larger, more active cultures for a while longer."

Andranar says, "Doriath also poses the problem that at least two, maybe
three or four of the cultures on the game -can't- come there thematically."

Tavarilyn nods, "We'd be hedging theme in doing so... :/

Melian says, "Well, that's fine Erathil, and OOCly, in principle, I agree
with the wisdom of it...but I can't think offhand of any IC reason why we
would go north"

Tavarilyn says, "Heck... we're *already* in the greyest area we can be in
;}"

You say, "We've still got a few weeks to come up with that reason, Melian."

Elwen can think of reasons to send peo0ple to Doriath, though, when it comes
to it

Melian says, "Doriath doesn't mind hosting groups of people that might wish
to distance themselves from the military hot-spots in the north...at least
of those cultures we can let in"

Celvir says, "I certainly understand all the OOC reasons people have
suggested, but I would still like to see Nargothrond and Doriath do more
together. They are natural allies because of Finrod and Galadriel."

Elwen says, "Or at least not as... distanced from dear old Thingy ;)"

Celvir says, "That too. ;)"

You say, "We need to start working towards the pre-DB plot that has been
posted about, as well. While Nargo is in Doriath, can they still take part
in the orch RP and the huge council that is to follow?"

Celvir says, "I'm glad you mentioned that. One thing I wanted to bring up at
this meeting. Do we really want to do the Dagor B?"

You say, "Yes.:)"

Celvir says, "In the old days, I was all for it, but I'm not sure it is a
good idea. we have too small a player base to support losing all those
characters."

Celvir says, "And once you start the Dagor B, you can't stop. From then on,
it is just a countdown until the end..."

Torghaal has a commment about the DB.

You say, "Our player base is not getting any bigger. The Dagor Bragollach
will at the very least shake the whole MUSH and provide a new setting for
many of us to RP in, afterwards."

Erathil nods to Torg...

Elwen looks at Torg

Andranar says, "It's a long ways to the end though. It's a countdown now,
just on pause. I dunno- but lets DO IT or DON'T DO IT and stop having this
waffling debate every six months. Although I guess that serves to make DON'T
DO IT what's actually happening, regardless of policy or decree."

Torghaal says, "Angband couldn't support a sustained battle, IMO. We don't
have enough active people. You goodies are in large supply, but we're not.
As of now, Sauron is our only feature that I know of. Carachoth is going to
be filled soon, maybe Draugluin, but we're missing major people as well as
just the grunts. I think we need to have the DB, but I think things have to
be taken into acount considering the player base as a whole and must be
acted upon acordingly."

Elwen would like to, perhaps, say a few words?

Celvir looks at Elwen.

Glinirnaeth would like to say something afterwards

Elwen says, "When Torg is done, that is"

Torghaal is done.

Torghaal says, "sorry."

Elwen says, "No need to be sorry, I just didn't want to interrupt =)"

Elwen says, "Okay, I will be as brief as possible. First, to let you know, I
was asked in April by Mandos to start preparing for the DB. That has not
changed, even if he is gone. Now, it is true that our player base is not
huge, but it is, at least, fairly stable, atm. I know that there are a lot
of concerns about having the DB, especially on those whose cultures are
hardest hit by it. Dorthonion. Feanoria. To a lesser extent Mithrim,
Dor-Lomin, and Nargothrond. We do lose a lot of characters, but, in truth,
only three are RPed right now-- Hador, Aegnor, and Fingolfin. But some are
opened to play as well. And there still needs to be a build-up to the DB
itself, during which I hope that some of the issues can be worked out.
Angband is more active again, and the RRC is opening spots... anyway, I
wanted to let you know all that..."

Celvir pages: Was Hathaldir at the big battle with the dragon? I don't
remember specifically when it was, but it was a couple of months or so
before I left.

Elwen says, "And that's it for the moment"

Elwen says, "Oh, and affects Angband. Duh ;)"

Tavarilyn SNUGS a bunch and must run. "If anyone needs Gondo... -mail? :}

Tavarilyn heads out into the hallway.

Tavarilyn has left.

Glinirnaeth says, "Ok...starting out with regards to what Torghaal said,
Feanoria is in even worse shape, both concerning the number of players and
the features. And I would hate to call our playerbase stable, because if it
were, it were stable at a very low level. What players we have are mostly
Europeans, which aside from scheduling issues brings with itself very mixed
feelings about the issue of "playing war" some of which have already in the
past been mentioned by european players from other cultures. Regarding the
consequences of the DB, my concerns are less about the extent as about the
handling of the administrative issues connected with it. Those should be
discussed well in

Elwen meant the playerbase of the mUSH as a whole, sorry for not being more
specific

Glinirnaeth says, "Well, I understood that, doesn't mean that we don't have
cultures in a bad shape, though"

Owael has left.

<Dorthonion> Aegnor is quite pleased.

Andranar says, "I would say that as far as the FC thing, the fact that only
3 are being RPed right now is a case against the DB- once they're gone,
they're gone- and noone will ever have the chance to play them. For D-l,
that's not a big deal, as we get a host of new FCs that are probably better
known anyway.. I think a general plan is to fill those spots before they're
gone forever. But that's my piece."

You say, "The DB has been proposed and postponed a good handful of times
over past few years. The three biggest arguments against running it have
always been the same: We don't have a large enough a player base, and not
all the needed FCs are being played, and Angband is not large enough to
support such a lengthy series of battles. In the past, the MUSH has been in
better shape than it is now, and yet the DB was still postponed and delayed
back then. IMO, we'll never reach a state where *everybody* is satisfied
that the MUSH is ready to run the DB."

Celvir says, "If we are going to do it, then I have one request...let us do
it according to the books. If a character dies in the books, then they die
in the mush...no alternate histories...However, I would suggest that if a
person loses a Feature, they be offered a new feature to make up for the one
they lost."

Elwen nods to Celvir. "That is the MUSH FC policy anyway

You say, "I personally think that the we *can* and should run the Dagor
Bragollach, even with the player base and with the FCs we have. As Andy
said, we can fill out those FC roles needed in the time between now and when
we actually start it... to compensate for a small player base, we will need
to spread all of the DB events out across a lengthier period of time, and
organize and advertise each Rp event more carefully than what we may be
accustomed to."

Glinirnaeth says, "The issue is not everybody or not everybody, Erathil, but
the issue is: Will a majority of the players have fun doing it or not? Will
some be uncomfortable doing it? What will the price for the fun be that
those who have fun at it have?"

Andranar says, "A dead race has a stable poplulation, Glin. No growth, no
decline. Just hangs at 0... <sigh> As far as 'playing war' goes, then find
another game that doesn't deal with that aspect of the world as an intergral
part of its theme and is less offensive to your sensiblities. Personally,
Erathil, I'll believe in the war to come when I have a red blade in my hand,
for just what you said. Sorry for not voting in confidence, Elwen. But yeah,
again- Do it or not- five or six years of debating it should be enough,
guys?"

Elwen says, "I'm not asking for a vote in confidence, Andy, s'ok =) I'm
asking for sheer honesty here."

You say, "You make a good point, Glinirnaeth. I see the DB as a chance to
have fantastic, true-to-Tolkien RP. The RP this MUSH has seen over the last
couple of years has unfortunately been rather stagnant, in general. Much of
it, I have to say, uninspiring. We need Grand Events to give us something
worthwhile to RP about."

Glinirnaeth says, "Andranar, where did I speak about me specifically?"

You say, "Andy, the DB won't come unless every CA in the MUSH helps out.
Don't stand back and wait to see it. That's another reason why it hasn't
occured yet. Too many skeptics."

Elwen would like to ask a question, then?

Tulkas waves, "Appreciate listening in a bit. G'night."

Tulkas has left.

Erathil nods to El.

Elwen says, "I am askin, for just a moment, that you seperate two things.
Tgnor, for the moment, whether or not you think it can be done. More
important, I would ask, would you like to see it done? The idea keeps coming
back; there must be a reason. So... do you *want* to do it?"

Elwen says, "Tgnore = Ignore, btw =/"

You say, "In case any of you haven't figured it out yet: Yes I do!;)"

Torghaal says, "without concern to anything else, yes I think it needs to be
done."

Andranar says, "I'm not speaking about you specifically, Glin. I'm referring
to the people you reffered to generally. If that's you, it applies. If not,
don't worry about it then. Geez. Solopsism?"

Elwen abstains, simply because that would be the "duh" vote of the night

Andranar says, "Erathil, I spent a lot of time pushing for the DB already.
I'm not going to keep up the sisiphian (sp?) task forever- if this can build
on the work I've put in, great. If not, then you don't need my help."

Celvir says, "Can I make a long, spammy comment?"

Elwen says, "But you would want to do it, Andy, or no? And sure, Celvir.. if
it's cooked Spam"

Andranar says, "At this point, Elwen, I don't really care one way or the
other. If it happens, great. If it doesn't, that's fine too. I'm just burned
out on cussing and discussing this thing every six months. Look at my
-firston date.. That's a lot of these meetings to no end as yet."

Elwen understands and snugs

Celvir says, "I am of two minds on the issue of the Dagor B. People are
correct that the mush could stagnate without it. Certainly that was my
feeling two or three years ago when I was playing Angrod. And it does
present outstanding opportunities for rp (great death scenes, if nothing
else.) But at that time, we had all the children of Finarfin cast as players
and almost all the Sons of Feanor.

Having recently reread the Silmarillion, it really struck me just how much
the Dagor B isolates all the Beleriand cultures. There will be little or no
opportunity for the type of mp that is currently going on in Nargothrond. It
also makes having parties and festivals difficult to justify ICly (unless
you are in Gondolin, Nargothrond or Doriath). I understand your frustration
Andranar, but I really think we should wait until we have more Features
cast.

But that is just my opinion. If people decide they want the Dagor B, I will
help support it."

Celvir says, "And sorry for the half-baked spam. :)"

You say, "I think we should start the pre-DB plot as soon as the Nargo TP is
over. Give ourselves that much time to cast the needed FCs and to fill out
the player base. Waiting longer isn't going to solve any problems, because
the waiting is what has caused this MUSH's player base to dwindle in the
first place."

Andranar sits down. "Well, how much longer do we plan to spend on this
tonight? I'm not sure if we're to the point where the discussion becomes
circular and chatty or not. And excuse my mood. Or don't, I spose."

Torghaal has one thing to say totally off the DB subject, whenever that's
finished.

You say, "I don't see any of this being solved tonight. Andy, you know the
drill. The only way to get on with things to actually start RPing that
pre-DB plot."

Erathil had something non-DB related to say, as well...

You say, "Sure thing."

Elwen says, "Well, I guess that's what I am asking. We are not going to have
the DB tomorrow, or next week or net month. We are talking months to build
up, prepare, to solve the problems or work around them. All I am asking
is... is it a go to start it? If wh start it, it *can* be done. That's all..
really..."

Elwen sorries and shushes

Glinirnaeth would like to say something afterwards...

Andranar sighs. "I've been RPing on the pre-DB plot since the day I got here
Erathil. That's not going to change. I'm just saying I have come to terms
with the fact that I may be preparing for that for the rest of my IC life.
Fortunately, that's a finite term for me ICly.. and

OOCly."

Andranar says, "But I'm not contributing anything here. If anyone has a log
of this whole thing later, lemme know- I'd like to read it. And I'll get out
of the room now."

Andranar has left.

Celvir says, "After listening to everyone else tonight, I think your
arguments are pretty persuasive. If it will help move the plot along, I will
withdraw my objections to the Dagor B (they were pretty mild objections to
begin with). If you need my help with any of the pre-Dagor stuff, let me
know."

Glinirnaeth says, "I would like to know in what extent this can be discussed
with the players? As I said, the issue is "Is it fun for the players?" What
Erathil said earlier is true for some players, not for others, and since
this has the potential to alienate some of the latter players from the MUSH,
I think that danger should be assessed in advance."

Melian would comment to that...

You say, "The repeated postponing and delay of the DB has in itself
alienated countless players, Glinirnaeth. We are here for RP in the 1st Age,
in the time directly before the Dagor Bragollach. The promise of RPing that
battle has drawn a lot of people to the MUSH who long since left because we
have kept putting it off. We've had 5 years of NO DB. Now I think we should
try the DB."

Elwen nods also to Melian

Glinirnaeth smiles. That didn't answer my question.

Arato has arrived.

Elwen waves

Glinirnaeth says, "I didn't speak against having the DB. But I think we
should know who will be uncomfortable with it. If we have it, we have to
take care of these people."

Melian says, "Glin, I'm sure we all can sympathize with those who don't like
"playing war", whether it be because they simply don't like doing combat RP,
or because it comes too close to RL for some. Frankly I would count myself
in the former group...doing combat has never appealed to me personally. This
doesn't mean I object to there being combat RP going on however, and I have
to agree with Erathil that the not doing the DB has hurt us more over the
last few years than anything. People have gotten fed up with it being
forever "coming up" and left for other pastures. So...I think we should
start working toward doing the DB...to finally do what we've been saying
since I got here 3 years ago we were going to do. I'm sure there will be
accomodations made for those who wish to participate in non-combat ways,
whether it be behind the scenes at the front, or in one or another of the
cultures that don't participate in the DB, such as Doriath or Falas. As for
the second group I mentioned above...at the risk of sounding cold, I have to
agree with what was said earlier...The Silmarillion has war as a central
theme. A MUSH that purports to enact the world of the Silmarillion has to
include war. And, well, frankly, if someone can't handle war happening here,
then they really shouldn't be here...and I would wish them well if they
chose to leave and hope that they found a place more to their liking. Yes,
we need players but we need players that are willing to see all aspects of
the theme enacted here...and we shouldn't have to twist theme to suit a few
who don't like the theme. Any polls that have been taken in the past, the
majority of players have voted to stick to a fairly strict theme here, and
in all my time here what I keep hearing from players is "when are we going
to do the DB?". So I think that while the views of the minority that are
uncomfortable with make believe war are to be respected...but they are, I
think overruled in the player base in general. Sorry for the spam."

You say, "I think Melian just summed up my stance pretty effectively. Does
anyone else have anything to add, or can we maybe move on to what Torghaal
has to say?:)"

Glinirnaeth says, "Sorry if I was misunderstandable, but neither statement
adressed my question."

Elwen would say a brief something to Glinir's question?

You say, "Go ahead, El."

Elwen says, "Glinirnaeth, how you address the Feanorian playerbase is
entirely up to the Feanorian admins. I know that each culture will have it's
own way of addressing player concerns. But, again, at risk of sounding cold,
TPs and MPs have been decided through the admins. So, if you are asking me
if I (as Arien) was intending to put this to a full player vote, then I
would honestly answer, no. I put ot before you the CAs, as stewards of your
culture. I know that players will be alienated, and some may leave. And some
may stay, or come back. Change is hard, but stagnation... is worse."

Glinirnaeth sighs. "Well, that answered my question even if my intent still
has been misunderstood. Thanks anyway

Elwen sorries if she didn't get your intent, Glin, s'been a looong day

Arato says, "At this point I don't have much to add except to say that this
tp has been along time coming. There is not a single point in Melian's
earlier statement that I don't agree with. As far as Gondolin is concerned
this really won't effect us much if at all. I do feel however that more good
then ill will come to the mush."

You say, "I can not add anything else to this. Torghaal, what did you wish
to say?"

Torghaal has been asked to speak for Falas as well as Angband, since Narb
couldn't make it here tonight. Narb wished me to impress one of his concerns
upon you all. As he's said in his post to the Admins BB, he's quite
concerned with the lack of admin partisipation and communication between
everyone. Ever more so with the DB, we've gotta talk, we can't just let
things slide. Narb wanted to try and get people to start answering -mails,
even if it's a short blurb about getting back to you later. Just general
communication...he just felt that the admins as a whole were becoming
somewhat lax in our duties and wanted people to be aware and possibly move
to make things better.

Elwen would point out that if we go on with this, there will be a DB BB
specifically for this, Torg. So we all can see it

Arato says, "great idea"

Glinirnaeth notes that there is already a bb for the planning of teh DB,
DAGOR

Elwen chuckles and has to dust it off, then... thanks, Glinir

Glinirnaeth says, "although perhaps the lock should be widened"

Elwen nods and was going to talk to Tulkas about that =)

Erathil nods to Torghaal, "That's something I wanted to bring up as well,
Torg. I feel there

are too many players who have, for whatever reason, lost that initiative
they may have possessed when first being made CAs."

Torghaal sorries, but has got to run before sleep sets in too much.

You say, "This not only relates to CAs, but to Features as well. I think
there are simply too many inactive players who still hold important
characters or positions, and frankly, it's a horrible example to set."

Torghaal goes home.

Torghaal has left.

Celvir says, "What do you suggest we do about it?"

You say, "Now, I ask this mostly of the GAs, but could it be possible to
re-evaluate the Features list and begin to defeature inactive players?
Removing inactive CAs is the CWs charge, and I urge it be done as well."

Elwen says, "Part of that has been dealt with... a number of FCs were
removed for idleness over the past few months, and opened to new players.
Also, each culture really should loo into its own CAs and make sure that
they are active.. at least, that's my suggestion"

Elwen says, "And yes, the GAs can, we asked that each culture evaluate its
FCs... and this should be ongoing..."

Arato says, "yes...in fact we are in the process of removing one right now
:/"

Arato says, "a CA that is"

You say, "CA and FC flags should not be things you simply have to earn, and
then keep for life. A player should be considered a feature only so long as
they continue to uphold what is expected of a feature. The same goes for
CAs. And being 'active' should not mean simply logging to idle for ten
minutes every week. How many of the players in -list features still RP
regularly?"

Celvir says, "I am going to have to get going soon. It's getting pretty late
here. I agree with you Erathil, but fortunately, I am not the CW of
Nargothrond, so I don't have to worry about that problem. ;)"

You say, "I think we should close up for now, anyways."

Celvir says, "Thank you for organizing the meeting Erathil."

You say, "No prob. I trust we're all satisfied and won't be asking for
another one for a long while yet?;)"

Elwen says, "Yeah, surrre, Erathil"

Celvir laughs. Actually, I'm glad we had it. Listening to the discussion
changed my opinion about the Dagor B.:)

Arato says, "so has anything been decided? do we have any closure?"

You say, "Nothing has been decided, except that instead of having the
beginnings of a new settlement in the Nargo TP, we'll use a large hunting
camp.;)"

Celvir says, "And we are going to have an IC Council meeting later in the
week, right?"

Elwen says, "Yep."

You say, "How does wednesday sound?;)"

Celvir says, "Wednesday if fine with me. I can be on any time after 2100
GT."

Elwen says, "And... what about the DB? can we set a date for a final vote?
Just on to go ahead? Or have we pretty much decided tonight?"

Erathil laughs, "I decided a long time ago. But we'll see what the CAs in
the next meeting are like, and what they say, before announcing anything
permanent. IMO, it's going to happen whether half the MUSH leaves or not.":P

Arato grins and doesn't think many will leave...and if they do they will
just come back

Celvir says, "Well, good night, all. See you later in the week."

Elwen says, "Night, Cerlvir"

Melian says, "night Celv"

Arato waves

Elwen says, "Celvir, even"

You say, "Good night, Celvo."

Glinirnaeth says, "Night, Celvir"

<<<<<<<Editor's note: Arrr, matey!>>>>>>>
