* Central Plains of Lothlann

The plains are endless stretching seemingly forever in all directions. The wind sighs in the rich grass and you can see for many miles everywhere. This is a lonely place you think.

The knight Lothron, sitting astride his horse, holds up a hand for the caravan to stop. His steed shifts nervously as Lothron sniffs the air. A scowl on his face as he shakes his head, he looks about for Fingolfin.

The golden horse of Fingolfin also shifts uncomfortably, and the High King looks about cautiously, his eyes narrowed. "I like it not," he says slowly, pondering. "No bird or beast have I seen this past hour, and that is not as it should be..."

Lothron nods as he approaches the King. "That is what I noticed first, the silence. No bird singing sweetly to praise Arien." He glances at the dark clouds that cover the sky, blotting out most of the light. "Think you it is the chance of rain and nothing more? Or mayhap our fears will prove well-founded."

"Pigeons..." Feanga says "Maybe we should have sent some to Aranturios or Himring. But short of messengers to bring the news, we have to see ourselves what the day shall bring..." He mounts his horse, signalling his men to scan the area.

"I trust nothing on this plain," answers the son of Finwe, looking up at the clouds. "Bird and beast do not flee from rain alone... and the very air opresses me." He nods to Feanga's words with a sigh. "Birds indeed, I wish I had, but all I left behind sent on other errands. And swift riders.... may not be swift enough..."

Lothron nods. "Aye, alas. Yet mayhap we three may ride on ahead stealthily in the van. It would be wise, methinks; and also we should set a good watch in the rear."

"Stealthily," repeats the king, looking about the wide, open plains. "I know not how stealthily we may ride here where it is so open... but at the least we are horsed." A grim smile touches his lips, and his hand rests on his sword. "Nevertheless, if foes be near, we shall teach them a lesson in fear."

"I have 20 riders under my direct command." Feanga states. "We can dispose of them as we deem best."

Lothron raises his lance. "Aye, but if it be a company of Balrogs, then mayhap 'twere best to flee. Let then but a small number of us scout ahead and see what we may see. Milord," he nods to Fingolfin, "permit me to take but two of my trusty folk, and do you remain with the rest in your watchful care?"

The High King nods slowly, looking at the assembled riders, and gripping his own sword. "Go then," he sats quietly, "But raise a horn-call if we are needed..."

A rider from the assemblage gently urges his horse to take the few steps necessary to reach the Knight and the High King. The steed neighs forebodingly, and trots the ground nervously as Elendreth wordlessly acknowledges Lothron's bidding.

Feanga nods, picking up his spear and shield. Adjusting his helmet, he sets out for the perimeter.

Lothron urges his steed on at a gentle trot. He turns over his shoulder to exchange one more glance with Fingolfin. He nods and pats the horn at his belt then faces forward. He moves on cautiously with Feanga and Elendreth.

* Southern Plains of Lothlann

There is one sole dominating feature of these lands: plains... grasslands, flat but filled with lively grass. There is naught to see for miles either west, east or even to the bitter north from which a cold wind blows. To the south, the plains stretch on and there you see distant highlands, and perhaps in the distance, a gleaming citadel standing on a stately hill.

Underneath the overcast sky, the plains seem empty, devoid of beast or bird. A fitful wind blows, waving the tall grass in soft waves. A peaceful scene, almost idyllic. Who might guess that the grass conceals a squadron of orcs, or a handful of Gaur? All seems empty, silent. Yet one patch of shadow remains, one wolfen form out in the open. An enormous black wolf hobbles across the grass, then rests herself in the trodden hollow of grass. She whimpers once, and then lies still, like a dead thing.

Tinguz lies in the high grass, with the others of his group...waiting...ready to attack at a moments notice....he grasps his scimitar with a firm grip...he wants so badly to look up and see where the enemy is...but refrains until the word is given..or their position is discovered.

Three tall, proud Noldor come into view, mounted on noble Elvish steeds whose sires were born in the fields of Orome in Aman. They move at a cautious rate, though they have given up hope of stealth in the flat grasslands. They all spot the lone black wolf at once, and the leader holds up his hand. "Werewolf!" he whispers to his companions. "Yet we can hunt one alone," he says with confidence that is only a little shaky.

"Who says it is alone?" Feanga asks. "I wonder if I should sen for my men..." He looks behind towards the camp. "That grass could conceal more than it reveals..."

One of the two other Noldorin horsemen, Elendreth, surveys the landscape as he guides his steed to halt on the alarming notice of his companion-in-arms made. Briefly stretching his bowarm he turns to his companions, failing to conceal his own anxiousness in his contravening words: "It seems a lone strayer, yet it might revolve some manner of dupery. We must be cautious."

The black wolf looks up at the approaching horsemen, and snarls a warning, rising shakily to her feet, then yelping as a forepaw touches the ground. She lifts it up, whining, and begins to hobble away from the riders, her stump-tail tucked in fear between her legs.

Tinguz waits in the tall grass with his noses....waiting for the trap to be sprung...waiting for herhighness to lure the prey into the net...her call to attack...

Amidst the grass, shrouded infact, a shadow lies large and obscured, nought to catch the eye. Though eyes gaze out, green, but not as the grass, first to the wolf then to the riders. The shape is still, for now.

Lothron no longer heeds the warnings of his companions. Instead he motions them forward with him, and his lance gleams as if of its own light (for the Sun is veiled). "Come, my friends, swiftly now! Let us not allow this foul spawn of evil to escape alive!" He urges his horse to give chase. "Feanor!" he cries.

The sun sinks below the horizon, darkness once again claiming the land. Feanga shakes his head, lifting his shield. Making sure to have a good bracing in his saddle, he braces his spear like a lance.

Elendreth kicks his own horse into motion after Lothron and cocks an arrow onto the string in preparation for a full-gallop shot. He draws not, but reserves the shaft for the best opportinity, from which a long stretch of grassland still divides him.

The gaur runs for a short time once the pursuit is joined, and then whirls, all trace of fear or injury forgotten. "Rise, Angband, rise!" she bays, her call ending in the long drawn-out song of the Gaurhoth, calling them to battle. Orcs and dark-furred shapes rise from the grass, weapons held at the ready, or fangs bared. Ruthdin herself stands where she is, undaunted, the wind blowing in her midnight fur. "Fools," she murmurs.

From the tall grass yells from the orc host arise as does the figures of the yrch now...charging their prey...led by Tinguz..a particularly ugly orc..

Amongst the grass, the shadow rises, it starts to race through the undergrowth, though not immediatly out of it. After it has raced down the strip of grass at frightening pace, a huge Gaur leaps from the grass, and races onwards towards the riders at pace, fangs gleaming, and eyes burning with an evil light.

Lothron reins in his horse, gasping at the sight of the ambush. He curses himself under his breath, for indeed, he should have known. He raises his horn to his lips and blows a single, clear, long call. He realizes, grimly, that reinforcements will not come in time to save him unless he flees, but he sets his lance nonetheless, prepared to meet the onslaught of the new Werewolf. "Feanor!" he cries, as he moves his steed into a run to counter the attack.

Diverting his charge, Elendreth closes in on the forms that rush to meet the riding Elves on a passing course. Rising his hand high he bends the bow on which the white-feathered arrow rests, and takes a concentrated aim on the still wolf-shape. A wrathful gaze along the narrow piece of wood and he releases.

Elendreth launches an arrow towards Ruthdin...but he widely misses.

An arrow whizzes somewhere near Ruthdin, not even close enough to ruffle her fur as she darts forward, still no longer. Yet her eyes fix upon the elven archer, and she growls threateningly and leaps, not at him, but at his horse, hoping to unseat the rider to better fight him on the ground.

Urging his horse to a charge, Feanga directs the tip of his long spear towards one of the orcs rising from the ground. His horse gaining speed, he yells "Feanor!" as he attempts to impale the foulspawn.

Feanga attacks Tinguz with his Longspear...but he widely misses.

The gate of the beast is swift and powerful and with little time the rider and beast are close to the great wolf. The lance catches the eye of the beast, as they are about to collide his stride stutters and the gaur darts to the side, with a last explosive jump, it leaps jaws agape at the throat of the steed. Paws lash out cruelly, though not yet at the elf.

rom the east a cry rings out into the overcast sky and coming into view a dozen or so small figures move quickly towards the beggining conflict. At the forefront of the group a figure of shining metal races forward; a half-shield on one arm and a battle axe in the other hand, covering his chest a set of shining chain mail glints in what light there is, and with the metal helmet a face guard of multi-colours lends protection to his head. Behind him the other figures are equipped similarly, yet none are as bold or as well crafted as their leader. Another shout rings out as they split off, "Khazad ai-menu", which reveals them to be Naugrim.

Tinguz sees the rider with a spear moving towards him and dives down to avoid the spear...as the horse rides by he stands andsnarls at the longear....and readies himself for the next attack....

His bowarm relaxes and he watches his arrow go wide by some untimely error, though the shot was diffucult on its own. Elendreth prepares to reload his weapon, when the sudden vault of the beast startles his mount, neighing it throws him at the mercy of the vile creature, bereft of speed and evasiveness. The Elf had the fortune of being tossed away from his enemies, which gives him the chance to reorientate, draw the long blade from his side, and to don the shield that the now fleeing horse carried. Wiping the confusion away he stands to face the monstrous form.

Lothron's horse Gwaeron rears up on its hind legs, setting up a great neighing as it is attacked by the horrible beast. As if in defense more than anything else, to repulse the beast, the knight thrusts his lance towards the werewolf's open mouth.

The orc host tenses at the horn-call, and more so as the dozen small figures come over the horizon. Dwarves! Three gaurhoth lunge forwards towards them, followed by half the orcs.

Cursing, Feanga turns his horse around. The full charge having missed, he has to be content with less speed. Urging his horse to another charge, he attacks once more.

Feanga attacks Tinguz with his Longspear...but he widely misses.

You attack Kalnargoth with your Lance...he easily avoids your attack.

The female gaur lopes towards the fallen bowman, eyeing his horse briefly and licking her muzzle. yet she does not go for the easy prey, instead seeking the sweeter meat of elven-flesh. She snarls as she sees him standing already, and dives low at him, seeking to crush his right leg in her strong, cruel jaws.

Ruthdin attacks Elendreth with her Fangs...but Elendreth blocks with his shield!

Moving forward with surprising spead, the Khazad meet the yrch with full force. As axe's swing wildly and the clash of metal rings out, the Naugrim leader and his two closest cousins move towards the advancing animals. Pointing their axe spikes forward, the three khazad raise their shields in waiting for the werewolves to reach them. Steadying themselves, they wait silently for the force to strike.

As the Longear attacks again Tinguz steps near the horse and swings his scimitar up in an attempt to knock the rider out of the saddle....the blade aimed at the Elfs left side...as he manages to avoid the spear once again...

Tinguz attacks Feanga with his Scimitar...hitting and moderately wounding him!

As the horse, rises away from the leaping wolf, it twists it body, with lightning pace. It whirls round as if chasing its tail and out from underneath the horses front legs. The wolf sprints around in a very tight circle, now facing the horse and rider again. Leaping now at full stride rising up to the rider, again jaws gaping, seeking the flesh of the horse or rider.

Kalnargoth attacks you with his Fangs...hitting and moderately wounding you!

The orcish blade cuts into Feanga's side, yet the shield stops some of the impact. Cursing once more, the Noldo urges his horse onward, to bring enough space between himself and the foulspawn to turn his horse around once more.

His eyes still fuzzying from the impact Elendreth focuses on the dreadful onslaught put against him, his heart beating surges of fear throughout his body, laming him. Gathering all his will he takes an adopting backstep and deflects the beasts maw with his shield. Simultaneously, perhaps even, intinctly, he brings his sword sharply from behind his back in an effort to wound the creature in the left side.

Elendreth attacks Ruthdin with his Longsword...hitting and mildly wounding her!

Snarling at the blow from the shield, Ruthdin is unprepared for the slash to her side, and yelps as the blade scores a long, though shallow furro on her left side. Yet she leaps upwards, not giving grownd, her teeth snapping at the offending forearm that holds the blade.

Ruthdin attacks Elendreth with her Fangs...hitting and mildly wounding him!

The werewolf's jaws catch Lothron's left arm, tearing him from his saddle. The lance falls from his grip and he gasps in pain, for the jaws do not release his arm. The knight struggles to remove his sword from his scabbard to fight back.

Kalnargoth falls down with his full weight, as they both crash to the ground. The wolf does not release grip of the arm, this results in the wolf falling apon its back with such force. The elf falls apon the ground near him, holding the arm still infact pressing jaws tighter and tighter the beast rolls to its feet, pulling the elf as he rolls.

Kalnargoth attacks you with his Fangs...hitting and mildly wounding you!

Turning around again, Feanga races towards the orc, hoping to reach him this time.

Feanga attacks Tinguz with his Longspear...but he narrowly misses.

The fangs of the Gaur catch the arm of Elendreth. Although he manages to withdraw it in time to avoid it being completely seized by the fell teeth, the cut is deep and painful, and the Elf hisses for the sudden agony. First taking a few steps back to give him the space he needs, Elendreth pushes the sword tip-first towards the wolf's belly.

Elendreth attacks Ruthdin with his Longsword...hitting and moderately wounding her!

Lothron cries out in pain, his yelp not unlike the bark of a wolf such as the one he is engaged in combat with. As the jaws tighten on his arm and blood oozes from the growing wound, the knight finally releases his blade and swings it in an arc to bring it down on the werewolf's head.

You attack Kalnargoth with your Broadsword...he deftly avoids your attack.

Again the sword reaches her, and Ruthdin howls in agony. She leaps away, crouched low to the ground, but for only a moment. Changing tactics, she leaps at Elendreth's chest, hoping to knock him over with her weight, while she bites at his throat with her fangs.

Ruthdin attacks Elendreth with her Fangs...but she widely misses.

Tinguz tries to grab the spear as the elf attacks again......but misses his attempt...then the Elf turns and attacks again...this time Tinguz swings his scimitar to wound the horse's front left leg and cause the rider to have to go a foot.....

Tinguz attacks Feanga with his Scimitar...hitting and moderately wounding him!

Tinguz attacks Feanga with his Scimitar...hitting and moderately wounding him!

As the left arm still lays clasped in the vice like jaws of the Gaur, the flaming green eyes espy the other hand free a sword, the left front paw of the beast lashes out to meet the sword arm as it archs towards him. The great beast drives its great neck, flayling it with monstrous stregnth, partly to avoid the stoke and partly to bite all the harder.

Kalnargoth attacks you with his Claws...hitting and moderately wounding you!

The interval the wolf gives him allows Eledreth to gather his focus, and once the hideous shape charges once again he has good time to make an agile leap to his left, dodging the beast'ss attack and leaving him with an open chance to slice its belly for a second time.

Ruthdin misses her mark and meets only air, and she drops to the ground with a howl of anger. Yet she finds herself behind her prey, and she wheels and leaps once more, using her razor clwas this time, swiping low, at the back of his legs

Ruthdin attacks Elendreth with her Claws...hitting and mildly wounding him!

Lothron grits his teeth and cringes in pain, tears coming unbidden to cloud his eyes. There is a sound of crunching bone coming from his left arm, and blood seeps from the tears in his right arm made from the beast's claws. He rapidly thrusts his sword in a stabbing motion towards what is all to him no more than a big, ugly blob.

You attack Kalnargoth with your Broadsword...hitting and mildly wounding him!

The Noldo's horse raises its front legs into the air under the pain, flailing wildly at the orc. "Die, vermin!" the warrior yells, lunging his spear towards Tinguz' chest.

The quick movement and deft avoidance of the Gaur leaves Elendreth in an unfavourable position, and he pays the toll of his slackening with pain and blood as the claws slash the back of his thighs. In a reaction-like response his sword comes down towards the paws that hurt him, while he strugles to take distance from the beast.

Elendreth attacks Ruthdin with his Longsword...hitting and mildly wounding her!

The swinging blade of the Elf rains down again, the wild stroke though not unexpected flies with complete panick, the pace fools even the wolf, the keen edge rakes down the vile beast's side as blood seaps out wetting his fur. The sting not deep, causes the jaws of the wolf to slacken for a second. The elf's arm falls free. Not hurt enough yet, the paw lashes out now at the chest of the floored Quende, claws seeking to rake his flesh.

Kalnargoth attacks you with his Claws...hitting and mildly wounding you!

The blade slashes Ruthdin's paws, staining the ebon fur with bright blood. Green eyes blaze, madness coming into them, as her full fury is now aroused. With a deeper growl then before, Ruthdin swings her head about, biting at the forearm af Elendreth's sword-hand.

Ruthdin attacks Elendreth with her Fangs...hitting and moderately wounding him!

Lothron seeks to duck from the wolf's attack, with the result that the monster's paw catches him across the side of the face. The knight reels a moment from the blow, but his last attack had encouraged him, and now he seeks to stand, a fell fire of rage burning in his eyes that blink to see better. He jabs upwards with his sword, hoping to impale the beast on its throat.

You attack Kalnargoth with your Broadsword...he easily avoids your attack.

Feanga struggles with his balance as the long weapon is pulled, the deep saddle preventing him from falling rightaway, he nevertheless has to jump from the horse, lest the spear be torn from his hand. Angrily, he thrusts the weapon forward, trying in his turn now to unbalance the orc.

The other gaurhoth watch as the battle is joined, breaking off as the orcs seem to hold their own, for now, against the dwarves. Instead they circle the field, waiting to kill anyone who tries to escape the carnage.

A shredding scream of agony escapes the Elf's throat as the vile teeth seize his weapon-arm under their rigid, deadly grip, his whole body going under a sudden, violent spasm briefly for the painful hold the beast now has on him. Gathering new strength from terror and torment he pushes his shield to crash it against the head of the Gaur.

As the guar do not attack, Telchar moves quickly forward and finds himself near the elve's. Shaking his head quickly the dwarf notices one of the first-born struggling against another of the wolves and getting struck across the face. Raising his axe, the dwarf Lord charges forward and swinging it around in an arc he aims to strike the beasts behind.

Telchar attacks Kalnargoth with his Battle Axe...hitting and mildly wounding him!

Tinguz anticipating the actions of the longear Tinguz steps back raising his scimitar..even as the tip of the spear grazes his chest again....Tinguz spits to the side and snarls again...moving in now and swinging a blow aimed at the Elf's right shoulder.

Elendreth attacks Ruthdin with his Longsword...but he very widely misses.

The wolf now free from gripping the elf's arm wheels away, not to avoid the blow of the Quende though the movement did this. Again with deadly fluidity the wolf turns almost in the opposite direction and head towards the elf. Before he can leap a heavy blow smites the wolfs hind. A growl of evil volume leaves its throat. Tilting its head, an axe wielding dwarf he sees. Darting now as a mad dog, the wolf hurtles towards the dwarf. Fangs wide apart seeking the arm that wielded the blow, as blood drips from its hind.

Kalnargoth attacks Telchar with his Claws...hitting and mildly wounding him!

Lothron, now fully standing, staggers backwards a moment, seeing his opponent's attention diverted. He uses the opportunity to clear his mind, and to clear the blood from his face as well.

Striking the wolf's rear, Telchar immediately steps back in readiness for a retaliation. As he steadies himself for the oncoming blow, the dwarf raises his shield. When the wolf does attack, he tries to fend it off as best he can with his shield yet the claws still strike; and tearing through cloth and skin on his fore-arm blood is drawn. Quickly leaping back again, Telchar retaliates with speed and shoves the axe's head towards the guar's snout.

Telchar attacks Kalnargoth with his Battle Axe...hitting and moderately wounding him!

The deep growl still comes from Ruthdin's throat as she keeps her grip upon the elf's arm, heedless of the shield that misses her head. For she shakes her head back and forth with teeth still clamped, savaging the arm is she might with her fangs

Seeing the incoming blow, Feanga charges forward, into the massive frame of the orc. The hilt now crashes into his shoulder, but the blade is avoided. The orc staggers backwards, and deciding that he has been too close to that dangerous spear, retreats into the grassland.

The Quende behind him now seems forgotten, the Dwarf however very much in the mind of Kalnargoth as he leaps towards him. The wide jaws of the beast open and a deep growl leaves his throat almost a howl of pain, as the heavy axe tears at the skin on the back of the wolf, digging deep into the flesh. The wolfs leap however carries the wolf onward and the axe past the beast head, the jaws seeking to clasp at the masked skull of the dwarf, as the huge beast hurtles towards the dwarf..

Kalnargoth attacks Telchar with his Fangs...hitting and mildly wounding him!

Elendreth can but moan in pain as the wolf clinges to his arm with a tightening grip, the fangs driving ever deeper into his flesh, and weakened by the anguish Elendreth steps clumsily along the unpleasant guidance in which the Gaur leads him. Taking a sudden determined stance the Elf graces himself from the deadly claws with his shield and desperately swings his sword towards the beast's face with his wrist only.

Lothron now cooly appraises the situation as he watches the Dwarf face the Werewolf. He weighs his sword in his hand dispassionately, and approaches the beast from behind. He makes to stab it in the backbone.

Elendreth attacks Ruthdin with his Longsword...hitting and mildly wounding her!

You attack Kalnargoth with your Broadsword...he easily avoids your attack.

Again the dwarf moves back after his axe had found it's mark, and again he fails in avoiding the attack of the guar. As the beast lunges for his head, Telchar moves quickly to the side and the beasts fang's grab hold of the Khazad's shoulder, penetrating the chain mail and drawing a small amount of blood. Shaking roughly in pain and shock, Telchar manages to free himself of the beast and immediately swings his axe around at the guar's left side stomach.

Telchar attacks Kalnargoth with his Battle Axe...but he widely misses.

The gallop of a score or more horses is heard from the north. At last, Fingolfin and the reinforcements of Noldor. Folk of Mithrim and Feanorians both, with Fingolfin at the head, they are fast approaching.

Pain. Sudden pain grazing along the back of her skull causes ruthdin to lose her grip on Elendreth's arm, and she snarls in fury at the cursed elf. Yet even as she backs away, she slashes a great forepaw at his belly, hoping now to pierce soft flesh into the organs beneath.

Ruthdin attacks Elendreth with her Claws...hitting and moderately wounding him!

Finding mail and no real flesh, the wolf already wheeling away from the dwarf see the failed stroke of the elf striking air alone. Disliking being wedge between the clam like dwarf encased in mail and mask and the newly roused elf, he wheels about and darts around the pair putting both infront of him. He chooses the softer target. Jaws wide seeking the right arm this time, as mail still coats the Elf's chest. A powerful leap clear of the ground launches the wolf at the knight.

Kalnargoth attacks you with his Fangs...hitting and moderately wounding you!

To the east all now seems quiet. The ground is stained a dark black, and many a body lies motionless upon the ground. Of the dozen or so Khazad that started, 11 still remain and now only a small number are still actively engaged in battle. Having wiped out their immediate foes, the dwarves are quite content to stand back and watch the elve's loose to the orcs until such a time as they ask for their assistance.

Feanga shakes himself for a moment, rubbing his shoulder. Then, seeing his comrade Elendreth in a tight situation, he adjusts his grip on the spear and charges towards gaur, attempting to pierce is from behind.

Feanga attacks Ruthdin with his Longspear...but he very widely misses.

Still slightly dazed from his wounds, Telchar allows the guar to attak the elven knight and with a smile the dwarf Lord runs his axe through an orc's kneck and begins to slowly make his way back to his group in the east. Standing at the forefront again, an uninjured dwarf removes Telchar's shield to lighten the burden on his shoulder, and then he too stands there; waiting for the elves to ask for assistance. Horns blow on the wind, horns and more horns. Ruthdin looks upwards, and sees more horses approaching, many many more. One moment only sha pauses to count them, bringing at least the tale of that to her dark master. And then she howls, a mournful, angry note, sounding the retreat for the remaining Gaurhoth and orc-host. Her green eyes fix once more upon the Noldor, and then she darts into the tall grass, vanishing in the shadows.

Feanga bites his teeth as the gaur rends the mail at his arm and angrily he kicks after the departing gaur.

The sharp claw backed up with terrible strength drives through the Elf-wrought mail of steel, ripping Elendreth's side and unbalancing him. As he stumbles backwards, frail and stunned, the bleeding arm brings his long sword towards the Gaur in a large arch, devoid of all concentrated strength.

Elendreth attacks Ruthdin with his Longsword...but he widely misses.

The attack knocks the wind out of Lothron, indeed, it lays him flat on his back as the full weight of the Werewolf comes crashing down upon him, and the jaws clamp down once again on his already wounded left arm. Lothron's right arm still bears his sword, though, and he hacks at the wolf's side.

You attack Kalnargoth with your Broadsword...hitting and mildly wounding him!

The Noldor riders approach ever nearer, and Fingolfin and those with him in the van ride down those Orcs whom they first meet, swords flashing and cries of vengeance filling the air as night falls indeed.

Ruthdin's tail wags merrily as her claws sink deep into armour and flesh, and she takes a stride forwards, intent on finishing her prey. And yet a spear is thrust at her, and she whirls to face the new attack. Not close enough to rend with bloodined fangs, the gaur yet slashes at the spear-arm, snarling in defiance.

Ruthdin attacks Feanga with her Claws...hitting and moderately wounding him!

Seeing the new danger, the three gaur and the remnants of the orc-host charge at the approaching Noldor, hoping to drive them away until the slaughter below is complete.

Still atop the elf the Wolf sees the clam leave stepping away. The neck of the huge beast wheels away from the arm, and flies in the air and darts down, open jaws now seeking the neck of the Elf below his vast frame. With his eyes away from the Elf and now commited to his lung he misses the blade of the elf as it strikes him apon the side, a growl leaves but it seems more of anger as still the jaws plunge apon the neck of the Knight.

Kalnargoth attacks you with his Fangs...hitting and moderately wounding you!

The Noldor meet the foe with unflagging courage, bolstered by the sight of the High King himself at their head, carving a path towards their wounded comrades.

Lothron loses consciousness as his wounds become too great to bear...

His hand barely able to carry the blood-tainted sword, Elendreth staggers across the field of battle towards the host of the High King.

Horns blow on the wind, horns and more horns. Ruthdin looks upwards, and sees more horses approaching, many many more. One moment only sha pauses to count them, bringing at least the tale of that to her dark master. And then she howls, a mournful, angry note, sounding the retreat for the remaining Gaurhoth and orc-host. Her green eyes fix once more upon the Noldor, and then she darts into the tall grass, vanishing in the shadows.

Feanga bites his teeth as the gaur rends the mail at his arm and angrily he kicks after the departing gaur.

The wolf sees the Knight sink, as he sees it, into deaths hands. A crule smile crosses his face, he bends over the lifeless body, his jaws agape, a growl rolling from his throat, he settles hith mouth around the already torn left hand. A hideous crunch of bone and pouring of blood follows. The wolf turns his head and sees the coming elves, he turns and runs towards the grass, in his mouth the hand of the fallen Knight. The vile creature drips with blood, but its loping strides carries it to the grass. Few Yrch have left the field, but without waiting this beast does seeing the Female wolf doing the same. He is gone into the night.

As the last of the gauhoth and orc-host flee into the darkness, Fingolfin finally rejoins the three Feanorians who rode off earlier, and he slips down from his horse and runs across the grass to them. His eyes are grave, and as he kneels first at Lothron's side he calls out in Quenya for healers to be brought. He then searches the grim wounds with eyes and gentle fingers, shaking his head.

The Dwarven company remains on the perimeter, watching and waiting for a few minutes until one old Dwarf mutters what appears to be an order. Soon, it appears, food breaks out and the Dwarves sit down to enjoy what seems to be a picnic. They don't seem about to invite the Noldor to join them, but they don't seem to be excluding them either. They seem rather neutral to their presence.

Lothron, now laid out more comfortably, his wounds bandaged so that he loses no more blood, begins to breathe better. He is still unconscious, though he seems tormented by dark dreams. The pain must still be very great, for his arm is broken, and he will never recover his hand...

The rest of the Noldor bandage their wounds, some seeing to the tree who were gravely injured, others looking towards the dwarves with a mixture of amusement and puzzlement, comparing their travel fare with the dwarves' repast. Fingolfin though, relieved of healing when others arrive, walks a widening perimeter, sword drawn, still wary.

Night has finally come and things are looking up. Still cursing the bitter incompetence of his underlings a shadow lurks beyond the puny fires of it's enemies. The balrog has been patient for some time now, waiting for the darkness in which he is most comfortable. And in that time his anger has fermented, once a tiny glimer of frustration has, like a sill and a potato, become something much grander. Studying the camp he has seen the one who strides about so noblely, the one which sealed the defeat of his minions, this is the one that must pay.

The old Dwarf seems to have his fill, for he rises, says a few words to his comrades, then walks over to Fingolfin to share a few words. His mattock is on his belt, not his hands. He seems to be munching something extremely hard, for he chews and chews and chews without end as he walks.

Fingolfin slows, staring into the night. His shoulders tense, and then relax once more. Shaking his head, he secures the helm about his head, yet his shield hangs loose upon his left arm. In his right he bears Ringil unsheathed, yet the blade points now towards the ground. At the sound of approach behind him Fingolfin turns his head, smiling faintly as he sees the old dwarf. "Well met," he says softly."

Dror chews thoughtfully, and squints up at Fingolfin. "Well met indeed, King of the Gnomes. Yer folk are in our debt this time, methinks." He grins briefly, but it fades, and he makes a swift gesture to the north with his hand. "What do ye make of it? That's quite a large force to be hidin' out in Elven lands, eh?" He continues chewing.

Out of the North a soft breeze begins to blow, singing with a cold moan of battles to come. And behind it the shadow comes moving silently, blending in with the darkness of night. There are others with this Elf now, Valkane makes a mental note that they to will punished for their part in striking his minions. As he approaches the ring of light cast by the glitteing campfires he pauses, the shadows surrounding him turning pitch black, darker than the night about him. And suddenly the campfires flare up, burning now with a sooty, deep, red fire, and the Balrog is revealed.

"Indeed, we are--" begins the High King, and then stares at the fires that suddenly blaze deep red. For a moment only he is motionless, and then turns to se the Balrog before him, a vast dark shape, darker than the shadows. His eyes widen, yet he does not falter, and he lifts both sword and shield. "Go back, accursed spirit, and trouble us not! Begone, or I shall slay you, fouls servant of foul lord1"

Dror gasps at the sight of the demon of Morgoth, but it turns into a deep growl in the back of his throat. The Dwarf lowers the visor on his mask and tugs his mattock from his belt. He spits on his hands and grasps the weapon firmly, and waits, looking to Fingolfin or the Balrog to make the first move.

Annoyed at the words of this false king, for now Valkane sees that it is surely one of these Elf-lords, the Balrog draws himself up, throwing back the cloak of shadows which has hidden his dark form until now. And as he does so words, which crackle with a hint of fire in them, sound in the minds of the elf-king and his companions, "Though art the accursed ones. You defile the very ground, the ground which is rightfully my master's. It is you who art doomed. Come, face my wrath."

"So be it," says Fingolfin, though whether in answer to the Balrog or to some inner though it is unclear. Yet his eyes gleam like stars, and he leaps forwards, silent, like a bright star come down to earth. His flickering sword stabe ubwards towards the center of the shadow, where he judges the Balrog's chest to be.

Fingolfin attacks Valkane with his Longsword...hitting and moderately wounding him!

As the High King attacks, the Dwarf-lord takes his cue. Swinging his mattock to his right, he brings it whistling back towards the Dwarf's left and ahead, aiming a strike to where the demon's left leg should be.

Dror attacks Valkane with his War Hammer...hitting and mildly wounding him!

The sweeping silver blade slashes at Valkane's side, the steel feeling cursedly cold against his fire-warmed hide. And then a second strike, a more annoying one, like the gnat which buzzes about one's head, the hammer flatten's itself against his foot. A barely audible snarl escapes as Valkane hefts his Battle Axe, glowing wickedly in the firelight, and strikes out at Fingolfin, swinging horizontally at the elve's sword arm.

Valkane attacks Fingolfin with his Battle Axe...but he very widely misses.

The whip snakes out, like a fell serpent fire-encircled, yet Fingolfin is already leaping away from it, darting in closer to the monstrous shadow. His shield upraised, he stabs upwards once again, close to the same place where he struck before.

Fingolfin attacks Valkane with his Longsword...hitting and moderately wounding him!

Dror, realizing that Fingolfin bears the main brunt of the creature's wrath, continues to hammer away stoically at its left leg. As if in the same swing as the last, he swings his mattock to the left and then back to his right to strike at the leg.

You attack Valkane with your War Hammer...hitting and mildly wounding him!

Even as the elf strikes again Valkane turns his attention to the impertinent dwarf. But before he can lower his axe another blow from that cold hammer strikes. Valkane's eyes squint, and he swing the axe down unpon the dwarf's back.

Valkane attacks Dror with his Battle Axe...hitting and mildly wounding him!

Even as the battle-axe comes down a second time, Fingolfin leaps forwards, for the blow is not aimed at him. His sword stabs upward a third time, at the thing's side now, as it has turned. A great cry comes from his throat as he stabs, crying out to the Valar for strength.

Fingolfin attacks Valkane with his Longsword...hitting and moderately wounding him!

The old Dwarf is tough. The blow catches him on the back, causing him to exhale a gasp of pain, but he recovers enough to change it into a cry that joins with Fingolfin's. "Mahal ai-menu!" The old skeptic seems almost able to believe in divine aid at this moment, as he aims his next blow at the exact same spot, methodically. Perhaps the heat and the darkness remind him of the forges in the deep caverns of the Hollowbold.

Dror attacks Valkane with his War Hammer...hitting and mildly wounding him!

The Fire-Demon bellows once more as the hammer strikes. In a gesture of annoyance his left hand sweeps dwon, catching Dror on the shoulder with a fierce blow, sending the other srawling. As he does so he feels the foul sword of the elf prod at his side. The same, swinging left arm continues it's path, grasping the blade as it strikes his side. And now he turns to come face-to-face with the elf-lord. His eyes burn with a long hatred, but one that shows remembrance of what once was. Valkane holds the sword to his side and the blade begins to head up, the blade shinning somewhat as forgotten dirt dries and falls away. The heat remains confined to the blade, perhaps by intention, or conflict with the elf's own powers. And finally the Balrog drops the blade and steps away. His looks once mor upon the elf and bares his teeth. Stepping further away he gathers the inpenetrable shadows of dark about him and runs northward, leaving behind the elf and dwarf, and the blade, still glowing with a mingled white-red glow.

For a moment Fingolfin considers following the Balrog, but then he looks at the glowing metal of his sword and thinks better of it. He Watches as the demon disappears into the deep shadows, and then drops his sword and looses his shield. Finally he removes his helmet, wiping the beaded sweat from his brow. 'Again, you have my thanks," he says to the dwarf.

The Dwarf lies on his back, and his face is covered with his mask. It is hard to tell his condition. For a few moments no sound is heard, then a hoarse shout, "Wine!" is heard from the figure. A few young Dwarves hurry over to tend to him. He will be fine.

