* Barad Eithel -- Hall of Feasts

Fire burns in a great hearth, warming the hall year round. The floor is paved 
with flagstones and much covered with thick rugs and mats, especially during 
the winter, when the stone grows chill. Tapestries line the walls, bearing 
images of splendur and loveliness that brighten the hall with color.

Rows of tables seat the many people that are often found here, and just off of 
the hall are the kitchens, pantries, and cellars which provide the meals that 
give this hall its name.

Primarily, the hall is the scene of feasts and laughter, stories and poems and 
song that often lasts well into the night. But other purposes it serves, also: 
proclimations are read here, audiences held, justice delivered.

Early morning has arrived at the fortress of Barad Eithel. A slight breeze 
blows outside with a hint of fall in the air. But here in the dining hall, the 
air is still and a small fire burns in the hearth. A lone figure sits 
there...an iron rod in hand, he gently prods the fire. His deep blue eyes 
shine with a mingling of light...the light of Aman and the light of the fire. 
The Prince of Mithrim sits in deep thought this morning with only a pot of tea 
and his cup to keep him company...

Maedhros enters, alone. The hall is large, yet warmth radiates from the fire 
at the hearth. But the Lord of Himring seems more warmed by the sight of 
Fingon, his friend of old. With a smile, Maedhros moves swiftly and silently 
to join his brooding cousin. As he takes a seat beside him, he lays his left 
hand on his friend's arm to alert him to his presence--though he doubts Fingon 
is still unaware.

A grin appears on Fingon's face as his cousin touches his arm, "Do you think I 
could not tell it was you, cousin?" he says without even a glance in Maedhros 
direction. "How do you fare this morn'?" he asks continuing to 'stir' the 
fire...

A smile slowly spreads across Maedhros's features, as if Fingon's grin is 
contagious. "<Quenya> My friend," he says. "<Quenya> I am well, I hope I find 
you well. With all the urgent business, I fear, we have had no chance to share 
thoughts and exchange speech as of old. So I thought to seek you out this 
morning, for a brief while, before returning to work." He takes Fingon's cup 
from his hand and looks in it with a grin.      

Finally the sun rises over Mithrim! You feel the first ray gently touching the 
skin of your face. The night was long and misty...

A slow tread sounds on the stairs, soft, and yet halting every now and again, 
as if someone halts, and then walks once more down the stairway. A tall figure 
appears in the doorway leading up to the rest of the tower, dressed in blue 
and silver, the High King. Yet though Fingolfin's clothes are formal, his hair 
is tousled somewhat, and his face bears evidence of more than one wakeful 
night. He leans in the doorway and gazes around the nearly empty feasthall, 
yet his eyes are distant, and seem to see other than his son and the son of 
his brother.

The outer door swings open allowing the early morning light to spill across 
the hall,stepping through Valnen starts for one of the tables and his morning 
meal but his eyes catch sight Fingon and next to him Maedhros,he stops and 
nods to both respectfully before settling down at his table and setting a page 
to bring him his breakfast.

Through the heavy gate, with strides equally as heavy, Caranthir the Dark 
comes. His head is down, his eyes carefully watching his steps; there is a 
thoughtful expression upon his face. He notices not his brother and cousin; 
his forward motion continues without pause.

Seeing the soldier enter, a grin appears upon the face of the Prince. "Join 
us, young Valnen..." his musical voice rings out. He gestures to a seat next 
them by the hearth. "...your presence would be most welcome." The page now 
returns with a fresh pot of tea and a tray of cups. He sets them down on a 
table by the Princes. 

"Will that be all, M'lords?" th page asks looking to Fingon then to Maedhros.

As his breakfast is brought out Valnen takes his plate of fruit and a few 
slices of bread, standing he crosses the hall towards his Prince.."thank you 
m'lord i would be most honoured to sit amongst such a fine company as this." 
he says flashing a joyous smile,he takes the seat offered near the heart and 
begins to work on his breakfast.

Maedhros eagerly accepts the tea, nodding to the page and saying, "Yes, thank 
you." He pours himself a cup, and one for Fingon. He is aware that others have 
entered, but for another moment longer wishes to pretend, almost, that he is 
still having some time alone with Fingon. "We missed you at the council," he 
says, "though I have no doubt when it comes to deeds your sword shall be seen."

Another figure steps into the light of the open door shortly after the others. 
The sun rays strike his golden hair, making it shimmer, but his head is bowed 
as he walks across the threshold and his fair face is hidden in shadow. A 
nondescript cloak covers his clothing and brushes the tops of his boots. Only 
the ring formed in the shape of twined snakes reveals his identity as the king 
of Nargothrond. He takes another steps inside and pushes the door closed 
behind him. Only then does he look up to observe his kindred already gathered 
in the room. Raising his head proudly, he crosses the room to the place where 
they are gathered and smiles briefly in greeting. "Mae govannen."

"Yes...I was disappointed to miss the counsel...but I had some....shall we 
say...other duties to tend to. Father and I already spoke on the matter and I 
expressed my feelings to him. I am sure that his thoughts covered my own." He 
takes a sip of the tea and looking once again to the page he smiles and says, 
"A cake..perhaps...would do well?" The page nods and runs off once again. 
Turning his attention now to the young soldier, Fingon asks, "Tell me, how 
goes the watch, Valnen?" Just then, Finrod enters and Fingon greats him with a 
warm smile.

The King of the North stands in the doorway, his distant eyes seeing other 
places, perhaps, for they seem troubled. Yet the voices wash over him, 
familiar, near, and he shakes himself, and looks once more around the room. 
Caranthir he sees, and a Mithrim spearman, and then Maedhros and Finrod, and 
his own son. A smiles touches Fingolfin's lips and he nods, but does not move.

Caranthir continues forth, his eyes remaining upon his feet. Soon he finds a 
seat of his own, and nowhere close to Maedhros and Fingon. He lifts his head 
now, his gaze moving towards the north. His thoughts are visible through the 
movements of his lips: they tense and begin to quiver with rage. Upon the 
table where his elbows rest heavily, his fists clench such that the knuckles 
become white.

Turning his head to see the door open and the High King of Nargothrond enter 
Valnen sets down his breakfast and chews the last bite of bread so as to not 
be caught with a mouthfull of food,he nods respectfully to the King. Then from 
the corner of his eye he sees Caranthir and his mood of which the spearman 
wants no part on this fine morning.Now hearing his prince in his ear he turns 
to him and says "Well m'lord i have just returned from a scouting mission to 
check on a spotting of an orc patrol a few miles from here."

Maedhros now looks around to acknowledge those others present. With a smile 
all around, he looks back to Fingon, "Quite a family reunion we have here. 
Good morrow, friends," he calls out. "Come have some tea and cakes!"

But the mind and ears of Caranthir are elsewhere, and they hear none of the 
speech of Maedhros. His ill mood deepens, and his eyes close. It seems there 
is no cure for the darkness of Morifinwe.

With a mock expression of hurt, Fingon responds to Maedhros' words with, "Hey! 
those cakes where for us, cousin..." He stops short seeing his father and 
hearing the words of the soldier at the same time. His expression becomes more 
serious as he looks to Valnen. "I would assume that this is the same group 
that I encountered on the way home...we can discuss this at a later time." As 
he turns to see his father, Fingon notices Caranthir and motions for his 
father to look in that direction...

Seeing Fingon's warm welcome, Finrod smiles in return, relaxing the tension in 
his shoulders. "Thank you, cousin," he says quietly to Maedhros, "I should be 
glad for some tea. The morning air is cold outside." He pulls a chair away 
from the table and moves it near the spot where Fingon and Maedhros are 
sitting.

Fingolfin's eyes flicker, and he notes his son's gesture, though for a moment 
yet he does not move, as if his thoughts are still elsewhere. And then he 
gazes at Caranthir, and his troubled eyes darken, weariness now evident in 
them. "<Quenya> Bright morning to you all, my son and my brother's sons. And 
you, spearman," he adds, though almost as an afterthought. "<Quenya> What news 
this day?"

Caranthir's eyes snap open, and his gaze moves swiftly towards his brother and 
Fingon, "I burn not from hunger, brother." And then he turns his gaze towards 
Fingolfin. He locks eyes with the son of Finwe for a moment, before speaking: 
"Well met, King of Mithrim."

Maedhros clears his throught uncomfortably yet strongly, casting worried 
glances from Caranthir to Fingolfin. "Nevertheless come hither, brother, and 
mayhap some tea will soothe your throat or bring better warmth to your limbs."

Snapping his head around at the sound of his King,he sees him now at the top 
of the stairs where he did not before so engrossed in his morning meal he 
was,he now smiles warmly,"Bright morning to you as well m'lord."

Fingon stands up and crosses over to Caranthir's table. Looking down at him 
his eyes show both warmth and determination as he addresses him, "Caranthir, 
cousin...do not bring your darkness to this place. Would that I could heal 
your soul of whatever brings it to blackness..." He places a full cup of tea 
down on the table and crosses back to his seat by the hearth, stopping for a 
moment to place a reassuring hand upon the young soldiers shoulder.

Caranthir replies not for a long moment; his eyes remain straight forward, his 
jaws clenched. Then he stands up slowly, turning to face Fingon. "If my 
darkness is not welcome, then I shall dispel it for a time." Then facing 
Fingolfin, his face seeming genuinely without malice, he speaks: "I have acted 
as I did many years ago, as a child living within the walls of Formenos. These 
are dark times, and they demand that the Noldor are a strong people, a united 
people. I will unite with even the sons of Finarfin if I must."

Then he says to Maedhros, "I will have some of your cake and tea, Maedhros." 
And then everyone his speech falls: "Come, kinsmen, let us pretend that we are 
once more upon Valinor. Let us pretend that this is not Barad Eithel, but 
rather Tirion-upon-Tuna!"

For the moment, Finrod remains silent, listening to the discussion around him. 
He waits until Fingon is finished with the teapot and then pours a cup for 
himself. Holding it carefully in both hands, he resumes his seat and stares at 
the steaming beverage idly. When Caranthir speaks his father's name, he 
glances up at the speaker and his eyes narrow coldly.

Maedhros smiles nervously and speaks quickly to dispel the venom of his 
brother's words. "Speaking of Tirion," he says, addressing all the lords 
present, "that beautiful city we all knew in our youth, have ye heard any news 
from its image on Middle-earth, the Hidden City of Gondolin?" And here for the 
most part he seems to be asking Fingolfin.

"The Noldor are strong," says Fingolfin softly, his eyes flickering, "And I 
would that we were united, and strife flown from among us." He smiles faintly 
at Caranthir's words, and shakes his head slightly."Yet perhaps it would be 
best that I left you to remenisce about Tirion-upon-Tuna, for you were boys 
then, and dear to each other, despite the strife of your own fathers." And 
then he turns at Maedhros' words, and shakes his head. "No news have I to 
share," he answers, his words abrupt, as if there is much that goes unsaid.

Fingon stares into the fire once again and listens to his cousins and father 
spar with their words for a moment. At the mention of his brother's city his 
brow furrows for a moment. He listens to his father's brief statement and 
being of other mind and amongst this company he speaks out, "He will send *no* 
aid, Maedhros..."

"I shall remember alone then," says Caranthir aloud, crossing to the table and 
collecting a small serving of the aliments. "When my heart is light, you shall 
find me in the tent that is my own. When my heart is heavy, you shall find me 
upon the path where my father uttered his final words." And then he turns to 
leave.

"I shall remember alone then," says Caranthir aloud, crossing to the table and 
collecting a small serving of the aliments. "When my heart is light, you shall 
find me in the tent that is my own. When my heart is heavy, you shall find me 
upon the path where my father uttered his final words." And then he turns to 
leave.

Watching the exchange between the lords the young spearman feels very out of 
place but cannot help but listen for any news he might gleam from this 
discussion.

At the mention of Gondolin, the ice fades from Finrod's eyes and he turns 
automatically toward Fingon. "Would that your brother were here," he says 
quietly, pausing to take a sip from his tea. "His wit and wisdom are both 
sorely missed." He says nothing as Caranthir departs, but shakes his head 
slowly.

Fingon watches as Caranthir gets up to leave...and suddenly he too stands up. 
"Caranthir..." he calls out, "I wish to speak with you alone..." Those 
gathered here should know that Fingon is a solid link between the Mithrim and 
Feanorian people, thus when he follows, there should not be a question as to 
his intentions. "There is nothing that I can do about my brother now, Finrod. 
No one misses him as do I...but for now, I must be concerned with my kin that 
are present." With that he follows Caranthir out.

Yet Fingolfin watches Caranthir depart, and he gives a brief sigh, his gaze 
almost wistful. "Tirion..." he says softly, as if to himself, his eyes looking 
towards the west. "I do not forget,"he adds, as if in reply to the departed 
son of Feanor. He turns, and smiles at Finrod and maedhros, and lastly at 
Fingon. "I am glad... that you knew... your fathers' pride in you." His eyes 
follow Fingon as he rises, and the High King shakes his head.

Maedhros opens his mouth to speak more of Turgon, but Caranthir's words fall 
on him and he falls silent, at the mention of Feanor's death in this place. He 
sits a few moments in quiet thought, his eyes following his brother till he is 
out of sight, understanding.

Finishing the last of his meal Valnen rises from the table...'Excuse me 
Fingolfin but i must be off to continue my search for that orc patrol." 
nodding respectfully to both Maedhros and Finrod he crosses the sunlight hall 
and exits out in to the court yard beyond.

Although his expression does not change, Finrod's jaw tenses at the High 
King's statement. He watches Fingon depart without a word and mechanically 
raises the teacup to his lips, his thoughts obviously elsewhere. Finally, he 
turns to Maedhros and says, in a voice devoid of emotion, "My brother told me 
of your strategy for the the battle. You have done a fine job of planning as 
always."

Fingolfin turns at his nephew's words, and a weary smile touches his lips. "I 
am glad...that something I have done pleases you, Finrod," he says quietly, 
his voice disappointed rather than angry. "Yet you need not speak words of 
approval; well I know your thoughts on the matter." He sighs and walks over to 
the fire, sinking into a great chair by the hearth. He opens his mouth to 
speak once more,and then falls silent, staring into the depths of the flame.

Maedhros looks up from his brooding and nods, taking no offense. "Thanks, 
cousin. Surely you know my thoughts are always on driving back the darkness 
forever. At least it must not be allowed to defile the fair lands of 
Beleriand. At best I will fulfill the charge my father laid on me with his 
dying breath." He looks Finrod in the eye now, pleading for understanding.

"I know, Maedhros," Finrod replies, reaching over to set his teacup on the 
table. "And you have my respect for it. I meant what I said. Your plan is 
well-developed and thoughtful. While I may question the purpose behind the 
plan, I cannot fault the execution of it. But now I must return to my people. 
There is much to be done if we are to ride south and muster Nargothrond." He 
rises to his feet, and turns toward his uncle with a sigh. "My approval or 
disapproval hardly matter, do they? I have said I would stand behind you, and 
I shall. Is that not enough?" Without waiting for an answer, he strides toward 
the door and opens it, letting the sunlight wash over him. "Namarie."

Fingolfin looks up once more, his expression dark, unreadable. "You... must 
follow your heart, Finrod, and I...must follow mine. We ride now into the 
night, whether we fight or nay, and.... I do not think all will pass into the 
dawn once more." He shakes his head, and sighs. "It... will have to be 
enough," he says cryptically.







