* War Camp of the Feanorians

This is a great sea of white canvas tents and guttering camp fires, set in orderly ranks around a massive central cooking fire. The tents are arranged so that there are great pavilions surrouned with the smaller tents of the soldiers. The camp stretches for quite a distance. Along the outsides of the camp are picket lines where are tethered great elven steeds. By an estimation of two elves per tent and by the number of horses, this encampment must support at least seven hundred cavalry and nearly three thousand elven foot soldiers. The pennants and banners of Feanor lands snap over this place, over one of the main tents is Maedhros the Tall's, over another, Maglor the Mighty Singer, then Celegorm the Fair, and the colors of Estolad and Thargelion are there too, but no pavilion bears these colors, only certain of the smaller tents. All in all, this seems no minor camping excersion for entertainment, but a veritable host of the Noldor.

Lothron stands watch this night. Sometimes he stands motionless at his post facing outwards, his face a mask of calm and unreadable emotion. Sometimes he paces from one side to the other, his feet falling in perfect rhythm. He does not engage in conversation with any, though when greeted he gives a warm smile and a "Good even'," in his deep baritone.

Some quickly steps can be heard coming from the Himlad War Camp. Few moments later, among the tents, a maiden dressed with her ceremonial robes, a red tunic with silver arabesques and embroideries, as the ribbon which bound her black hair in a long and worked braid, appears beside Lothron. Despite her efforts to show a luminous appearance, she can not hide her paleness, nor her eyes can not conceal her sorrow for who knows the reasons. Keeping in her hands a white hankie, she plays unconsciously with it, while she approaches towards the quende. If one were perceptive enough to look into the heart of the maiden, they might see a deep sadness. Arriving finally near Lothron, Istyarwen merely nods and says in low voice "Almare, lord", her gaze lost looking at the thin air.

The ever-vigilant Knight is caught by surprise by the sweet young maiden. Turning to face her, he bows, saying, "Good fortune to you, mistress. In what may I be of assistance? I--" he stops, noticing the telltale signs that Istyarwen had been weeping. "My lady! Have you been wronged? Are you in distress?"

"Hm?" Istyarwen says, her eyes blinking for a moment as she was leaving a dream. Slowly she shakes her head. "Nay, nay.. I thank your interest, lord" The ghost of a smile touches her lips. "It is only that I.. I am a bit tired, today. I only need a bit of rest and peace, I suppose, to be in order again". She gazes the tents. "Although we shall have not too much giving that soon we shall leave this land".

Lothron nods thoughtfully. "'Twill be good to get some fresh air, though, methinks, and to shake the dust of this musty old tomb from our boots!" He smiles briefly at his jest, but it quickly vanishes. "Where are my manners! Though I have seen you often, we have never been introduced... I am Lotesse, though in Beleriand I am named Lothron--'tis all one. I am a Knight in service of Maedhros, as I was to his father, and his father before him." He smiles proudly.

"I'm delighted" the elleth nods to Lothron. "My name is Istyarwen, daughter of Calendil, and I am a diplomat of Prince Maedhros. Also my father served to King Feanor and before to King Finwe, but my brother serves to Prince Caranthir". The maiden sighs. "Aye, my lord. Also I miss our home or, at least, to live under the sun and the stars and not under the stone. I have had enough Nargothrond for me". Istyarwen takes a deeply breath. "If only.." She interrupts her speech. "Well, do not matter. We shall leave theses caves soon".

Lothron looks curiously at Istyarwen, wondering what her secret might be that she is so full of sighs. He bows, and taking her hand kisses it lightly. "A pleasure to meet you, milady. I was an acquaintance of your father when we served together in Formenos--might I inquire what became of him?"

Istyarwen pales a bit more but soon she recovers her normal appearance. "My father died long ago, in the Dagor-nuin-Giliath in defence King Feanor. They were together." The elleth looks with curiosity to Lothron. "So, if you served also in Formenos, sure we were already introduced, I think. All my family followed Prince Feanor in his exile. Ah, what for a days..".

Lothron nods, his eyes avoiding Istyarwen's gaze as he searches the borders of the camp for any sign of life. "I tend to lead a quiet life I suppose, silently serving the great. Even a great warrior," he smiles, "can be overlooked if none sing his songs." He shrugs. "Such is my fate, I think, but I am content."

"Oh, but all the stones building a wall, do not matter if they are big or little." Istyarwen smiles. "And we have a lot of silent heroes among us. The important is to accomplish our mission. The rest is not relevant." With a tilt of her head, she continues. "You are a member of the Guard of Diamond, Aren't you? That is a great honour, lord. Only few of our warriors can reach it!".

Lothron smiles warmly and nods, fingering his diamond belt. "It is a great honor, and I am very proud. I have dedicated myself heart and soul to the quest of Feanor's Sons--partially, I guess, to redeem myself..."

"To redeem yourself, did you say?" Istyarwen inquires. "Forgive me lord, but I cannot understand you. May I ask you why do you speak so?" The maiden looks with even more curiosity to the knight. "Are you referring to Alqualonde, perhaps?".

Lothron shakes his head and looks intensely at Istyarwen. "Don't you understand? I was Finwe's guard..."

Istyarwen gazes at Lothron and nods silenty. "But anybody did can nothing, lord, if you remember well that terrible day. Nor the Sons of Feanor." The lady replies at the knigh, her voice sweet and warm, as she used. "Nobody. I can understand your feelings but, why do you torture?". She shakes her head. "We have too much reasons to cry, but now it is the moment to fight. After our victory we shall can cry our sorrow".

Lothron says, "You speak truly. This is why I follow the House of Feanor. Only they truly seem interested in righting wrongs, of avenging ourselves upon this--" he almost spits the words, "Morgoth Bauglir. My enemy forever!"

"_Our_ enemy forever, my lord, and the enemy of all the elves, even though mostly of them do not want to fight". Istyarwen frowns and remains in silent for a moment. After she adds, raising an eyebrow "An attitude that certainly I cannot understand. The sindar and the laiquendi suffered also in the past the attacks of Morgoth. And the noldor, well, we know well about the noldor.. "

Lothron shrugs. "The enemy of all, yet methinks the Sindar can not be of overmuch help to us in our Holy War. What trust have we in those who have not taken the vow? Fingolfin, maybe, will stand by us in battle, but he craves it not. The Dwarves, maybe, will aid us with arms, and avow their eagerness for war, yet I trust them little. As for Men? They are of no use at all." He frowns.

Istyarwen merely shrugs. "I do not care of the dwarves and the seconds born. Right that the dwarves seem good people, and also the edain, but.. we are so different! And frankly, I do not trust in neither. If I barely trust in our race!"

Lothron nods gloomily. "Sad times these are. I blame Morgoth--nay, I hold none of the Valar blameless. Not that I am any better," he adds bitterly.

The diplomat nods in sadness. "And although that, mostly of the noldor still trust in them and sing songs of joy and glory for the valar." Istyarwen shakes her head. "But we cannot make anything.. anything.. Were we more people and we would not need them to defeat the Bauglir."

Lothron sighs and nods, gazing deep in Istyarwen's eyes. He turns away suddenly, remembering that he is on watch. Expressionless eyes in a stone face scan the area for Orome-knows-what. "Aye," he says softly. "Mayhap we should turn to discuss other matters."

With a slight smile the maiden nods. "Aye, it would be better. Do you are many time in the Guard of Diamond? Have you travelled?. But perhaps I am annoying for you. It seem that you are in your task and I have coming to divert you of your work". She tilts her head to the right, a bit amusing.

Lothron shrugs, turning back to face her. "Standing watch is a mere formality, almost. What is the likelihood that this camp will come under attack? Anyway, normally I travel with Prince Maedhros if he travels, or guard his hall if he is at home in the Hill of Himring. A lot of the time I patrol the Ard-Galen with a company of cavalry. My life is very... orderly, I suppose. Tell me about yourself."

Now is Istyarwen who shrugs. "Also my life. I live in Himring, even though I travel often to Thargelion and Himlad, in errands of Prince Maedhros. This is the first time I have left Feanoria, since our arrival to the east of Beleriand." The maiden gazes again to the thin air while she continues. "I like very much Thargelion. I lived there at first and my mother lives still in the land of Prince Caranthir. Also my brother, but normally he is in the North, in the Siege." She looks now at the knight. "About my duties, you can guess them" Istyarwen ends with a little smile.

Lothron raises his eyebrows. "Ah, why don't you tell me?" He grins. "I'm rather unimaginative tonight, I'm afraid."

Istyarwen grins in reply too. "And I do not like to be teased". She laughs. "And what for a good diplomat I would be If I were revealing the secrets of the realms" The elleth chuckles finally. "Do you have family here?"

Lothron shakes his head thoughtfully. "I have some siblings, aye, but no wife or children of my own." He looks up, and says with a hint of a grin, "Are ye wed?"

"Goodness! Nay!" Istyarwen says while her cheeks flush. "Indeed I have received offers but they were not of my pleasure. I am still single and probably I shall continue so for a lot of time." The voice of the maiden ends the sentence with sadness and a touch of pain.

In the uneasy silence, the knight clears his throat. "So... have you heard where we are headed next? Homeward?" he wonders hopefully.

"I don't know exactly, but soon, very soon, my lord". Istyarwen replies. "Practically all the things are prepared for our leave. Now we only must to wait for the command of Prince Celegorm and we shall begin to return back at home".

Lothron says, "Ahh, good. I am quite impatient to return to the north. I even hear rumors of an alliance to attack Angband at last!"

"Do not trust in all the rumours that you heard, lord. And perhaps, in the case that we attack the North, somebody must to stay at the cities to protect there the people and the place, Do not have thought at that posibility?" answer the elleth.

Lothron shrugs and smiles. "The best defence is a good offense! ..But of course you are right, some must defend the women and children in case something should go wrong." He frowns in uncertainty.

"Oh, not only the women and the children. There are also men that do not go to the war.. and women that are able to fight as our men" Istyarwen grins. "Not all the women are so peaceful like me". She ends with an apparent sign of innocence.

Lothron looks a little dubious about that, but keeps his mouth shut. "So... did you say your father was a smith? Or... I actually don't remember at all what you said your father was. If it doesn't pain you too much to speak of his deeds..."

Istyarwen raises an eyebrow caught by surprise. "My father was a veritable knight. He awaked up in Cuivienen and was closer friend of King Finwe like after he was friend of King Feanor. With both he was one of the counsellors and a formal member of the court. But also a great warrior."

Lothron says, "Ahh, right, I remember you said counsellor. A warrior too? Hmm. I would probably know him if I saw his face." He glances around once more, then up at the stars before returning to earth. "Is there any more business to settle before we depart, do you know?

"As far as I know, nay, my lord" The lady tilts again her head. "And giving that all of us are anxious to leave these.. caves and that practically all is packaged, I would dare to say that we shall begin our travel tomorrow or in a couple of days." Istyarwen smiles and drops her gaze to the ground. "I will be glad if you were a friend of my father.. I miss him terribly."

Lothron smiles sadly and nods, ackwardly patting Istyarwen on the arm. "Well, milady, it is near time for my watch to end, and I will be getting some rest... as should you, methinks."

Istyarwen nods gently to Lothron. "Aye, my lord. We have a long travel to make and we must rest.. I am delighted to find and to speak here. Good Night and Namarie". The maiden turns in her heels and begins to walk to her tent. Soon she disappears in the darkness.

Lothron gazes at Istyarwen as she walks away from him, standing still, in deep thought. He then turns to stare outward once again, now pacing, now halted, as he awaits to be relieved.

