Southern Plains of Lothlann

There is one sole dominating feature of these lands: plains... grasslands, flat but filled with lively grass. There is naught to see for miles either west, east or even to the bitter north from which a cold wind blows. To the south, the plains stretch on and there you see distant highlands, and perhaps in the distance, a gleaming citadel standing on a stately hill.

As morning dawns, the Dwarven camp is a hub of activity as the Dwarves prepare to resume their journey. The lone figure of Dror, Lord Narag, is seen stumping off towards the Feanorian emcampment, muttering quietly to himself. He doesn't seem to be a morning person: his hair and beard are scraggly and ruffled, his eyes are lined and haggard. Yet he seems to take comfort in his mug of a strange brew that he carries with him and takes a sip from every few minutes. He looks up as he approaches the Noldor.

Near his own tent, where a blue and silver standard flies in contrast to the Feanorian banners, Fingolfin stands, clad once more in his shining mail. His bright eyes scan the horizon, and his brow is furrowed with deep concentration. Yet he turns as the dwarf approaches, showing little surprise; indeed one might think he was waiting for the dwarf-lord. "Bright morning to you, Lord Dror," calls Fingolfin as he comes closer. "It is good to see you awake and about once more.'

Standing beside and behind the King, a soldier - and in his grey eyes are relfected the somber morning sky. With hair like flame, Nimlachlin turns as the Dwarf approaches, but his eyes and face seem elswhere, lost in thought.

And in the morning's grey light, a slender figure steps cautiously out of a tent, her expression weary yet without signs of drowsiness - Araphel, one of the apprentice healers, her raven curls carefully held back from her face by some small ornament - an animal of some sort, it seems. Silently she glances toward the far citadel, her eyes dark and sad, seeming rather lost in thought. . . .

Dror grunts at the greeting, and diverts his course to walk directly towards the Gnomish King. Coming to a stop when nearly toe-to-toe with Fingolfin, he takes a deep pull from his mug, emptying it. Emitting a deep sigh and looking regretfully at his empty mug, he clips it to a curious contraption on his belt, then squints up at Fingolfin, who has the rising sun behind him. "Aye," he replies, disingenuously. "I trust there are no more Balrogs frolickin' in these fields, for me 'n' me folk must be pressing on. We are already late for our commitment."

For a moment Fingolfin regards the dwarf with amusement flickering in his eyes, and yet... yet... His eyes grow thoughtful, and he nods slowly. "A debt of gratitude we owe to you and your kin," he says clearly, "And to you renown for your valour... and yet, I wonder..." He taps the fingers of his right hand upon Ringil's pommel and nods to himself. "Whither does your errand take you, Lord Dror?"

Nimlachlin merely stands, but his face grows more dour at the new of the Dwarves' departure. A little sigh is given to the wind, and the Sinda merely stares once more, eyes turned to the north.

Suddenly the healer stoops, turning her attention to some small flower left in the remaining grasses at her feet, her expression grim and sad as she listens to the others' conversations. . .save for a slight smile at the appearance of the little blossom.

Dror raises a hand to shield his eyes, and tries to rotate his position so the sun won't be in his eyes when he speaks to the King. "As for the debt, we will remember it. As to our errand, it takes us to your own land of mists--Hithlum--where some folk of the House of Hador have commissioned some work." He shrugs.

The sound of voices draws Aurival from his nearby tent. He peers through the opening and pushes the cloth aside to step into the sunlight. His dark hair and clothing seem incongruous in the bright sunlight -- only the white bandage and sling on his right shoulder and arm provide some respite from the darkness of his attire. He continues to watch the speakers in silence for a few moments. Then he strides to the High King's side, nodding solemnly to those present.

'Then, Dror of Nogrod, I say to you this: for the debt we owe to your people I shall make amends. For your own valour---" He pauses, and then remowes the brooch from the throat of his cloak. Like a star it gleams, a white gem like diamond, like adamant, yet seeming to flicker with inner fire. Around it are set seven sapphires in the shape of the Sickle of the Valar. 'This I give in token to you," he says. "Yet I would ask one thing more of you if I may. Counsel shall be held not long hence, in my fortress at the Eithel Sirion to discuss the menace in the north. I would be greatly pleased if you might come."

Nimlachlin cocks his head slightly, still silent as any soldier, his face though betraying that he is eager to hear what answer Dror may give.

Araphel looks up, her eyes widening slightly at Fingolfin's gesture - no small sign, that! Glancing toward Aurival, she frowns slightly, no discipline quite managing to stay her expression of disapproval, but she manages at least to turn her gaze back onto the flower before her.

All trace of sleep disappears of a sudden from the Dwarf-lord's face, indeed the gleam in his eye matches the twinkle of the starlike gem. If nothing else, this gift gives Dror cause to heed Fingolfin's words. "Thank ye for the kingly gift. As for the Council," he thinks for a minute, "we will be near of a certain, so methinks some of our folk shall be there to represent the Dwarves." He lifts his gaze from the gem to Fingolfin's face with a slight grin. "Balrogs are bad for travellers. And if there is war, steel will be needed."

Only a slight widening of Aurival's eyes betrays his surprise at the High King's gift to the dwarf. Otherwise he continues to listen to the conversation impassively and silently.

Ruahine wanders down from the dwarven caravans to see what this crowd is about. He sees the meeting between Lord Dror, and an elf lord. He decides to stand back, just within listening range, for now.

"Indeed they are," answers Fingolfin, a stern note behind light words. Yet his anger is at the North and not the dwarf, and he nods. "The do not travel lightly, and I fear--" He stops and frowns, for a moment pressing his hand to his right side. And then he recovers himself, and shakes his head. "I fear war may come to us, if we are idle. I wish you safe journey."

Hearing this the new dwarf steps forward to the group, bows deeply to the elf dwarf then turns to the Lord of Narag and awaits his attention.

A touch of relief overcomes the face of Nimlachlin at the words of the Dwarf, but wariness still resides there, and with a small shrug the Spearman turns back to the North.

A slight nod marks Araphel's only response, though she blinks a few times as she looks up, stealing a glance towards the dwarf, then watching Fingolfin with interest.

Ruahine asks the other dwarf, "My lord, am I right in understanding that we will be shortly departing from these elves?" he has a tone of worry in his voice, and in his eyes.

Dror bows low to Fingolfin. Apparently he believes there is no need for more words, for he turns on his heel and takes Ruahine in tow with him back to the Dwarven camp, admonishing him for his impertinence in a low voice and sending him ahead with orders.

The High King smiles, and turns even as the dwarf departs, looking at the tents that even now are being lowered and packed away. He winces slightly, and then begins walking towards the horse-pickets where Rochallor stands, stamping impatiently. Orders are called to break camp, and he nods, watching from the perimeter, glad they will soon be underway.

Rising slowly, Araphel stands in silence for a moment - then, with a deep breath, makes her way toward the High King, quickly dropping to the lowest curtsey she can muster. "Please, Your Highness, a question - I know I leave my place, but - all my seniors are otherwise occupied, and with the breaking of camp, I must know - " Suddenly she blushes. . .yet still her eyes look up to him, awaiting any reaction.

The Dwarven Caravan starts once again on its road. One young Dwarf smiles and waves to the Elves, but noticing that all his fellow countrymen keep their eyes on their path in stoic silence, he too sits down and stays quiet.

* * *

Entrance Plaza

A wide plaza stands just north of the great wooden Inner Gates, the entry square of the Fortress-City of Himring, seat of Maedhros, Lord of the House of Feanor. Tall, grim Noldorin Elves walk here and there in stately measure, most dressed in the robes of day-to-day life, but a few in glittering mail and girt with cunning steel. Several of these stand just outside a plain, functional stone building, which appears to be a guardhouse of sorts. Two roads cross here, one leading directly into the city and another, more beaten one intersecting it. The broad road is of wide granite block, and seems to resemble those of dwarven make.

Arien rides high as afternoon has come upon the entrance to the Fortress-City of Himring. The heat is oppresive but not so much to dim the arrival to the City of a most special group of visitors. The gates have been opened to emit the arriving hosts of the High King himself. At the head of the host, riding tall in his saddle, eagerness upon his features, rides the son of Aran Fingolfin...Prince Fingon himself. He looks anxiously about through the crowd gathered at the gates...obviously, searching for the face of his friend and cousin, Lord Maedhros...

And Maedhros emerges from the crowd, taking long strides on foot towards the new arrivals. The red hair of his mother's kin flashes brightly as he moves in the afternoon sun, for the tall Son of Feanor moves swiftly to greet his kinsmen. He finally comes to a halt some paces from his cousin, allowing him space to dismount. Maedhros stands proudly but not aloof; silent but not cold; at home in his kingdom but not unwelcoming.

Unlike the Prince of Mithrim, Feanarmo stands aloof and proud; silent and cold, his head rising above like mighty Himring itself. His pale features do not stand out amidst his kinsmen, for they are all colored like unto him. It is his features, however, that stick out. Where they seem glad to have returned to their home, he does not.

Amoung that host of shimmering Spears and ordered shields is that of a Soldier who stands out amoung his Sindarin brethren, if not as much amoung his Noldor countrymen. Hair like pale-red fire washes over his shoulder from beneath his armor, and he marches swiftly with his fellows.

Behind his son, flanking the Feanorian host as if he were one of its guards, Fingolfin son of Finwe rides, far from the waving blue and silver of his own banner. And as the host passes in, he yet holds his golden stallion at a slower and slower walk, and his eyes flicker rather to the surrounding plains than the walled city itself. The memory of the Balrog is new yet in his mind, and his hand falls to his sword unconsciously. Yet not until the last of the host passes through the gates will he ride into the city of Maedros.

Istyarwen smiles in relief approaching to the entrance to the fortress. When she nears the gates, she dismounts and crosses the remaining distance on foot. "It is a pleasure to be at home again, indeed" she thinks. The elleth looks around trying to discover any change in the city, and finally smiles again. All is in order. . . Times changes but Himring stays as always.

Striding forward out of the host a tall golden haired elf comes into view.He takes hold of the reins of the Prince's horse, and steps back out of view.

Seeing Maedhros approach, a wide smile appears on the face of Fingon. He moves his mount a few steps forward before dismounting. Without saying a word, he rises in his saddle and begins to dismount...tossing his light azure cloak aside. The sun catches the glimmer of the many rings of mail that make up his hauberk...dazzling the eyes of those who look upon him. He now stands before Maedhros...smile still evident...and bows, bending at the waist, in greeting, "Hail and well met, Kinsman! I ask leave to enter your fair city once again. Myself and My father and those who would come with us," his voice sounds out somewhat formally, a melody to those listening...

Dismounting slowly, Araphel gazes on Himring with weary eyes, looking both relieved and yet somehow disappointed, following her cousin as she leaves her mount. On her arm she carries a small pack, and a trace of nervousness seems still to darken her footsteps.

An impatient snort comes from Rochallor, and at last Fingolfin urges him forwards, glancing back once more towards the deceptively empty plains. He shakes his head, and then rides through the gates. Still horsed, he looks over the heads of the crowd, and watches Fingon's reunion with Maedhros. A slight smile touches his lips, nodding to himself. "It is well," he says quietly, and then slips off the stallion's back at last, and walks forwards, through the crowd.

Maedhros smiles and bows in return, bowing no less low than Fingon to show that they are as equals. His loud, firm voice echoes out in response: "Enter, then, and those with you. For this place is a refuge and home to all those who oppose Morgoth!" The Feanorian lord, clad in white and wearing no armour, changes as he greets Fingon personally, warmly. "And ever a home to you, my old friend. To long have I missed the sight of your face and the sound of your voice." He moves forward to give the traditional embrace and kiss of peace.

Nimlachlin is silent, his troubles eyes slipping gently over the masonry and impressive work of the Noldor. Awe is held in his eyes, but beneath it there is more in his heart . . . a trouble that can be seen.

As the cold grey eyes of Feanarmo come to rest upon the King of Mithrim, they begin to smoulder. A dark frown appears on the pale face of the mighty Noldor, and he backs farther into the gathering: it is not his wish to irk the Prince of Mithrim on this day.

"Are you worried, cousin?" Istyarwen inquires to Araphel, turning to her. "Or is it only tiredness? We have travel not too much. . . although. . . " She bites her lips and a shadow covers her eyes for a moment. "Come on, let us go to rest!". She gazes upon the group of mithrims and wonders sheself if they will be hosted at their Embassy or in the same palace. But at last she shrugs and turns again to Araphel waiting for her.

The smile of Fingon now changes to a hearty laugh as he steps forward into the embrace of his cousin. Holding the forearms of Maedhros and looking him over now, Fingon continues on with a warm smile, "You look well, Maedhros. I now see that my worries were without merit, for you are as hale now as when we last met. These years of living under yon shadow <points north> have not dimmed the light of your eyes." He now lets go of his cousin's arms and glances back through the crowd for his father..."Now where has father gone to?" he says looking for him...

"I - I didn't see to the wounded ones again - they were mine - I know they said the healers here would, but - " Glancing back once more before turning to her cousin, Araphel quickens her pace a little, shaking her head. "Forgive me. . .worry more than weariness, I think, though both weigh on me just now. . . ."

Of a sudden, Feanarmo appears before Istyarwen and her kinswoman. His arms are crossed about his chest, and his smouldering gaze looks directly at the two Noldorin maidens. "Rest, Istyarwen?" he inquires, his voice filled with both heat and cold at the same time.

This haughty man must distract himself from his anger, distract himself from the King of Mithrim.

Fingolfin moves deftly through the crowd, though it parts not for him, for indeed he is given no more notice than any other soldier. Nomore, and perhaps less, for no sundered kinsmen come to greet him, to ask for tidings of far-off nargothrond, or Dorthonion. An unseen smile passes across his lips, thinking of countless homecomings to Menelmacar. Finally near the front of the crowd, where the silver and blue of Mithrim waves proudly, he removes his helm, and the twined crown upon his brow flames with the sunlight bright upon its sapphire star. His gaze falls upon Fingon and Maedros, and he walks towards them silently.

Maedhros looks over Fingon's shoulder to look for Fingolfin as well. Meanwhile, he speaks, but rapidly, as if dispensing meaningless pleasantries. "Methinks the past years have been peaceful enough. Skirmishes with small bands out of the north are easy for the mighty Noldor to deal with--we who have beheld the light of the Two Trees in all their glory." Finally spotting Fingolfin, he smiles and briefly grips Fingon on the arm before moving past him to greet the High King. "Hail, father's brother!" he cries, and waits for him to dismount so they too can exchange greetings.

"But - " With a sigh, Araphel silences her protests. "Perhaps. . .but I want to walk down to the Houses later and check on them, please - " She looks about rather impatiently, like a spoilt child somewhat set in having her own way, but the anxiety in her dark eyes serves as something of a counter to the expression.

The smile broadens on Fingolfin's lips and he steps forward, so that none now stand between himself and the lord of the city. "Hail and well-met brother-son, Maedhros Prince of Himring!" His tone is formal, and yet there is warmth to his voice, warmth and another note, unidetifiable. "I thank you for your warm welcome of myself and my people." So saying, he inclines his head low to the eldest son of Feanor, but does not bow.

"Lucky as I?" replies Feanarmo with a raised eyebrow. "Once I perceived in you a fire unquenchable, Istyarwen. But it seems to have gone dim in these days. The Noldor must be a beacon, not a dying flame; rest if you must, but see to it that you have replenished by the morn. There is little time for games."

With a slow shake of his head, he is gone into the crowd once more. His steps are slower now, and his head hangs. The smouldering fire is gone now, replaced by something never seen in his eyes.

Maedhros, however, does bow before the king; for he remembers well that he himself had relinquished claim to the kingship in favor of his mighty uncle. His bow is reverent, but not subservient, and it is quick. He quickly moves from the bow into the embrace and kisses Fingolfin swiftly on both cheeks, then steps back to gesture at the citadel. "Come, my noble kinsmen, and you shall be show to your chambers, and your horses to their stables. After you have rested, we shall dine in the great hall, and there is the proper place for speaking." He smiles and turns, taking Fingon by the arm and beginning to lead him inwards to the citadel.

Fingon watches as his cousin and father greet eachother, all the while keeping another eye on the crowd. His smile fades somewhat upon seeing some of those nearby...but he says nothing. As Maedhros takes his arm, he comes out of his reverie and responds with, "Yes, Cousin...rest, talk and a meal are what would be best now..." he shakes his head and tussles Maedhros hair, his expression changing to one of mock sadness..."and don't forget the wine..."

Fingolfin nods at Maedhros' words, his smile somewhat strained, as if he is weary, yet he makes no complaint. "That is most gracious of you, kinsman," he answers, and then shakes his head as Maedros takes Fingon by the arm and brings him along. The High King follows behind them, the tension in him briefly eased. For seing his son and Feanor's together reminds him of better times, when the world was younger and evil seemed only a tale of a shadowed past he had never known. again the smile brushes his lips, more fatherly now than kingly, and he follows the Princes into the citadel.

Istyarwen watches the departure of Feanarmo. Then she searches the support of a nearest wall and sighs. "Sometimes. . . sometimes I feel myself so tired, cousin. . . Why the hell should be the things so difficult?". She looks towards the south as she could save the distances with another realm with her gaze and remains silent for a long moment. "Come on, Araphel. I want to write a letter and send it, profiting that the mithrims are here".
