* Nargothrond Travel Party

You find yourself in the midst of an elven encampment. Horses are mingling
near a spot of grass. Many silken pavilions have been set up to house the
travellers. Small fires burn and a few guards stand watch.

The figure of a knight bursts into the camp, mindless of protocol. He is a
familiar figure to some, often seen quietly standing near the Feanorian
camp. His movements are swift and dextrous, his armour jingles as he moves.

Lothron's eyes dart around swiftly, as if seeking for someone. Finding
noone of importance, he turns to the first one he meets, Terandil, perhaps
a soldier, and asks--a little rudely, but obviously stemming from concern
and need for haste-- "You there, know you if a maiden of our folk by the
name of Istyarwen is here or has been seen here of late?"

Terandil is standing on guard with another soldier. He watches Lothron
entering the encampment, but decides not to do anything before the man
approaches him. "No, I wouldn't know of that. Last time I saw her was
months ago back in our caves."

Lothron nods slowly, he knows the Noldo is speaking the truth. "I fear
that, caught up in her mindless fancies, she has wandered off, distraught,
into the wilderness! I must surely send a party after her, for she may be
in great danger!" With that he smiles in thanks and turns on his heel to
return to his own camp to muster a small force.

Terandil runs after Lothron adjusting his sword belt at the same time.
"Wait! Let me join you!"

Lothron glances behind him, gives Terandil a grateful smile. "Thank you. I
dare not take all my guard and leave the camp abandoned--all help is
greatly valued. I am Lothron, Knight of the Jewels. Now come, we must be
swift!" He is quick to leave the camp.

* Upland Fort

Guards patrol the perimeter of a stone fortress, carefully hidden from the
outside in a valley between the rocky cliffs. The grey stones which make up
the walls appear to be carved from the face of the tors which surround,
tall towers ascending into the sky from all four corners. A small garden of
vegetables and a few flowers graces one corner of the courtyard, near the
cooking area, where a hearty stew simmers in a pot which hangs on a spit
over a fire. A wooden and metal gate, flanked by guards, protects the
entrance to the fort, which seems to be manned by a small cadre of
well-armed men. A well-trod and dusty pathway leads southeast, still within
the confines of the fort, to a small cluster of buildings, mostly homes.

Lothron exchanges some quick words with another guard of his folk. Turning
to Terandil, who is hastening to catch up, he says: "One of my men found
some tracks leading north--to the Ard-Galen. She went on foot, so I am
confident we can reach her." He pauses in thought for a moment. "I think we
must sacrifice some speed for secrecy. I fear Orcs. We will go on foot, not
on horse, but I fear we must run. I will take a half-dozen of my men with
me. Are you ready?"

"Orcs?", Terandil says in a slightly surprised voice, "In that case I will
run with my sword in my hand." He starts adjusting his equipment for the
long run with a certain eagerness. The expression in his face gives out
that he almost anticipates a combat with glory. After a few short moments
he's ready. "I'm ready."

Lothron nods approvingly, and looks over his men to make sure they are all
ready. With a silent nod and wave of his hand he orders them into a trot,
leading them swiftly and silently to the southwest.

* Northern Ladros

The land flattens out somewhat, mostly barren save for small patchs of
scraggly grasses, most covered with pebbles blown by the strong, chilly
winds off the tors to the southeast. The land stretchs out, a rock strewn
path wandering towards the east, and a pass between the moderately high
peaks which line the eastern horizon. A roundish ball, seeming to be made
of a jumble of thorns and bushes, is blown over the pathway by the howling
winds, tumbling and tossing it about the nearly barren landscape. The path
heads up a gradual slope in a southwesterly direction onto the Eastern
Tors.

The group of Noldor start at a slow jog and bit by bit begin to pick up
more and more speed with an easy grace that comes natural to their folk.

* Gap of Ladros

Ah Ladros! Here you stand in the North-east part of Dorthonian. Here the
highlands make a break allowing passage to the east and the lands of
Lothlann, nigh the realms of the sons of Feanor. Yet here, you still walk
in the lands of the house of Beor.

Lothron stoops to examine the tell-tale signs of Istyarwen's passage that
his scout points out to him. He nods grimly. "She was moving fast. Let's
go." Her path leads clearly to the Ard-Galen, the 'Green Region' to the
northeast.

* Ard-Galen -- border of Lothlann and Ladros

Wide and empty grasslands dominate here and the cool northern wind whips
fiercely. Southward highlands bare and naked rise: Dorthonion. Here lay an
entrance to that land, with a break in the foothills.

Hours pass as the Elven force follows the trail, led by Lothron's clinking
armour. Having reached the Ard-Galen and plunged into it, Lothron finally
holds up his hands for a halt. "Drink, and rest, for a few minutes," he
mutters. "Well done--all of you. We should be nearing her soon." He frowns,
looking out for friend and foe alike.

Not showing any weariness Terandil walks to the nearest stone pushing out
from the grass. He sits on it and pulls forth his small water flask and
drinks. He turns his head toward Lothron."How do you know she's close by?"

Lothron looks at the Nargothrondhrim guard and shrugs. "For one thing, she
hasn't been gone very long. She was seen hours ago--in a very distraught
mood, apparently--and she is swift, but so are we, and we are trained to
endure this exercise better methinks." He shrugs again. The answer is
inadequate, but he supplies no other.

Terandil pays not attention to the obvious inadequacy of the answer but
nods grimly. He seems rather satisfied for the answer. In all ways he
doesn't seem a bit uncomfortable about the fact that they don't really know
what has

* Ard-Galen

For many miles about you, stretching into a tall sea of grass lays the Ard
Galen, a wide plain of which riders may often travel at leisure. To the
South, distant and dark rise highlands forboding: Dorthonion - and there it
is said dwell Aegnor, Angrod and the House of Beor.

Like a ghost, mechanically and without to think, Istyarwen continues
walking alone, searching for the way to Thargelion, her gaze lost in the
thin air. For how many hours, for how many days, she does not know but
either she cares of. Nor heat, nor cold she feels; nor hunger, nor thirst.
Her cloak and her tunic are dirty of the dust of the road, like the bag
that she drags behind her. But finally the weariness reaches her and she
balances her body a bit. She looks at the sky, the first time in much time:
soon the sun will disappears. Glancing around, she merely steps toward a
great stone amidst the field of grass. She slips slowly her body to the
ground, and closes her eyes. Then, the words of Celvir begin to hit her
mind again. She bites her lips and draws up her knees, resting her head
upon them and embracing her bag, hidden her face empty of tears. Slowly she
falls in a dark sleep, unaware of all.

A small company of eight Noldor, lead by the knight Lothron, slow from
their swift run into a cautious walk as they sense they approach another
being in their path. Lothron holds up his hand to halt his companions and
moves towards the figure slowly, carefully, silent save for the clinking of
his mail as he moves. Finally he can see that it is indeed, the diplomat
maid, though changed. He stands above her for a while, quietly searching
her face, a look of pity on his face as he wonders what to do.

There is a rapid clip of horse's hooves on the soft ground. The rider is
clearly pushing his horse too fast for the darkness and the rugged terrain.
Even the silver bells on the bridle seem to ring out a warning. The beast
leaps over a fallen log swiftly, while the rider crouches low on its back
to avoid the overhanging branches. The rider's green cloak is clearly of
Elven make and blends with his surroundings, making him seem but a fleeting
shadow in the twilight. He is nearly upon the party of Elves before he
slows the horse to a walk. His movements are tense and his breathing ragged
as he slips from the animal's back and hurries forward toward the others.

Although the noise of the arrival of the company is great, Istyarwen does
not move an inch or opens her eyes, still unconsciously, too much tired to
hear anything or perhaps trapped in her own nightmare, who knows. Her
breath is unquiet and her body is trembling now, illuminated by the
moonlight. She murmurs something but nobody barely understand her, so low
and confused are the words.

Lothron turns around swiftly towards the incoming rider, a scowl on his
face. Seeing only another Elf, he only holds up a hand and hisses, "Quiet!"
Only his small guard can hear, but they nod silently and turn to face the
rider, prepared to intercept and shush him. Lothron himself turns back to
Istyarwen and crouches down beside her. He takes her hand to feel her
pulse.

"Where is she? Have you found her?" Celvir whispers when he sees his
companions motion for silence. Years of training as a king's counselor
allows him to maintain a shred of dignity, but he is obviously holding back
panick with an effort. When he sees Lothron crouch beside the prone figure,
he freezes and watches with a mixture of horror and concern.

When Lothron puts his hand upon the hand of Istyarwen, she suddenly reacts,
opens her eyes and screams, as she does not recognises her fellow, looking
at him in terror. She tries to stand up quickly but, too much fatigued for
this effort, she faints again.

Lothron jumps back in surprise at the scream. As she faints, he looks
around in fear, hand on sword-hilt, fully expecting the scream to bring
hundreds of Orcs down upon their heads. He says softly, though with urgency
and no longer in whispers: "Come, one of you, swiftly, and try to give her
some water. The rest of you--stay low, and be wary." He sighs and mutters
to himself, "Damn females! I will never understand them!"

When he sees Istyarwen stir even for a moment, Celvir closes his eyes in
relief and murmurs a pray of thanks under his breath. He leans back against
his horse, stroking the side of its face absently as he continues to watch
Lothron tend to the Feanorian diplomat. Then, at Lothron's call, his eyes
snap open and he hurries forward. "Here, I have water," he says quietly. He
slips the strap of the water skin over his shoulder and crosses to Lothon's
side. "She looks ill. How long has she been gone?"

Hearing from afar unknown sounds, the maiden recovers a bit, conscious
again, and despite she does not look anything, she stays with her eyes
opens, gazing always the thin air. "Have I.. already arrived to..
Thargelion?. Aye?. I need to.. speak with my mother, to explain her.. she
will understand it.. she ever understand us, will she?. And sure.. sure she
can heal me.. of that madness".

Lothron's eyes scan the horizon for a moment before turning back to
Istyarwen and answering Celvir softly. "She was found missing before dawn
today." He shrugs and points to her, facing Celvir. "Do you know what she
is talking about? Go on, help her. I don't even know your name, sir, and I
don't know why she would run away like this. I don't even care. My job is
to protect my people." He unsheathes his bright, steel sword and moves to
join his men, leaving Istyarwen where she lies.

The color drains from Celvir's face as the guard walks away, leaving him
alone with Istyarwen. "I know why she ran," he whispers, half to himself.
He sinks to his knees at the maiden's side and slips his arm under her
shoulders, raising her head so he can offer her a drink of water. "Here, my
lady," he says softly. "Here is water. We need to find a healer for
you...you are ill and should not be wandering alone in the woods."

Istyarwen begins to drink anxiously but soon she swallows the wrong way and
begins to cough, giving a bit of colour to her pales cheeks. "You.." she
whispers. "Always you.." She focuses to Celvir. "What are.. you doing,
here.. again. Please let me.. let me live in peace. Do you want.. to slay
me?"

Lothron, naked sword still in hand, is nearly beyond range of hearing
Istyarwen's words, but he catches them just in time and whirls around,
returning to stand over the two. He eyes Celvir warily. "Don't you give her
any trouble!" But he looks to Istyarwen, as if awaiting her opinion.

"Slay you?" Celvir replies in astonishment to Istyarwen. "Far from it. I
rode out here to rescue you. When I heard that you had run off..."
Lothron's sharp words catch him by surprise and he turns to stare at the
guard. For an instant, the glint of anger flashes in his eyes, but when he
speaks, his tone is civil and quiet, almost weary. "Any trouble given has
been done already, mellon. I do not think I could do worse, at this point.
But if the lady wishes me to leave, I shall."

"He.. he is the counselour.. of Lord Finrod, Lord Lothron.. I.. I confused
him with another. He does.. not trouble me. Aye, I was very.. confused with
him.." The maiden explains in a sob and closing her eyes, relieves her
body. "Why, Celvir, why?" she whispers to him. "You speak of rescue but
you--".

Lothron rolls his eyes, sheathes his sword, and turns away in disgust,
without a word. He walks among his men and whispers among them.

"This is not a good place to talk, my lady," Celvir tells her. "These
soldiers have many duties and care not for the political disputes of
diplomats. We should return you to your camp. Are you well enough to ride?
I brought my horse. He can carry us both, if you will agree to ride with
me." He rests her back gently against a large rock and then stands up once
more, walking over to Lothron. "Forgive me for not introducing myself
earlier, but I was in haste. I am Celvir Quenaldar, an advisor to King
Finrod. I thank you for finding the lady."

"And also I have many.. diplomatic duties." She replies in a neutral tone,
but a bit already firm her voice, resting her body against the stone. "I
wish return back home, with my people, if I can.. even though I have no
horse. And I am not sure if I will can ride". She turns to Lothron to
inquire: "Are we too much far from our Camp? How many time I have been
absent? Do we have already news from Himring?".

Lothron turns to face the two once again. He nods to Celvir and briefly
says to Istyarwen, rather than answering her questions which may depress
her even more, "My lady, as soon as you feel well enough we must return to
camp. These parts are not safe."

At Lothron's words, Celvir nods and says, "Indeed, my lady. This is no
place for a diplomat. If you do not wish to ride beside me, I will
understand. But, at least use my horse. he knows the way back to camp. You
are too ill to walk there on your own and you should see a healer as soon
as possible."

From behind Lothron, though until now he remained in the shadows, the
mighty Feanarmo steps forth. His steps are slow and deliberate, and his
flinty grey-eyed gaze is locked upon Istyarwen. No matter how ill she
feels, she cannot escape the wrath of Feanarmo. He stares at her for a long
moment, disappointment and aggravation echoed on his features. "Istyarwen,"
he says firmly, his voice filled with the same disappointment that is in
his face, "why have you done this?" He seems on the verge of an explosion,
but he somehow reigns his temper.

"I cannot ride alone, I fear. I am too much weak for that. But I could to
accept to ride beside.. whoever, if I do not trouble." She remains pensive
for a while. "But why Lord Lothron has not answered my questions, I
wonder?" she says watching from afar the feanorian. "Is anything wrong in
Dorthonion since my.. depart?" Then she turns to Feanarmo: "A pleasure to
see you again, Feanarmo. You are so kind with me as always" she pales. "Do
I must to tell you about my life or my task now? She faces him.

"Leave the lady alone!" Celvir snaps, rounding on Feanarmo. He checks his
answer with an effort, but there is still an edge to his words as he
continues. "She is ill and needs a healer, not a tribunal. Save your
questions for later." He turns to Istyarwen and adds more gently, "Here,
let me help you up on the horse. You can ride in front of me and I shall
make sure you do not fall."

"Begone, cowardly Nargothrond." Feanarmo says to Celvir with disinterest.
Then he returns his gaze to Istyarwen, "Your task is no different than
mine, Istyarwen. Running away from your allies and your kinsmen will avail
you little in that cause. I have not come here to taunt you, or to
discipline you. No, it is not my nature to taunt a kinsman. But if we are
to succeed in any quest, we must succeed as one. Single efforts will win us
nothing; the enemy is too mighty and cunning for such endeavours." Then he
rounds on Celvir, "As for you, Celvir. You know little of Feanoria, and it
would be sound wisdom if you were to remain ignorant of our mighty
kingdom." A wry smile crosses his fell face, "I reckon that you have not
the courage to deal with the likes of us."

With some efforts Istyarwen stands up in her feet, still searching the
support of the stone. "Do not speak so to Lord Feanarmo, my lord. He is a
good friend, as worried for me as you. But perhaps he is a bit.. abrupt and
rude in his words. Nay, Feanarmo, I was no running away from my kinsmen,
I.. I cannot explain you my reasons, probably you could not understand me
in years. And I pray you, be also kind with Lord Celvir, like me".

"I will not argue with you, Feanorian," Celvir says, calming as he hears
the lady's words. "I do not believe in fighting my kindred. But I will give
you peace and privacy to speak with the lady, if that is her desire. If you
wish a ride back to camp, my lady, I shall wait for you a short distance
away, beyond that large tree." He points to a gnarled tree that stands out
darkly against the starry sky, long ago twisted and rent by lightning. With
a soft word to his horse, he slips onto its back and rides slowly away.

Feanarmo stares at Istyarwen, his frown deepening and his eyes flashing
dangerously. "Do not seek to cozen with me, Istyarwen. These Quendi are no
kinsmen of mine; it has always been thus, and it will always be thus. I
suggest you deal with them harshly as well. Perhaps then they will discover
the courage of the Quende that lays deep within their hearts." Then he
waves his hand dismissively. "But they are of no import, for it is we who
will win the battles." Then he gazes towards the north and the east, and
says softly, "It matters little what you flee from. A Feanorian does not
flee from any thing."

The eyes of Istyarwen follow with sadness the figure of Celvir leaving the
little group. She shakes her head and takes a deep breath, murmuring some
words that Feanarmo cannot hear or understand. "What are you saying now? I
was speaking about our people. And about to deal harshly with them, well,
you have been absent too much time for to know all the news about me, so
hardly you can judge me. And I only tried to arrive to Thargelion, if you
are interested to know where I went."

The eyes of Istyarwen follow with sadness the figure of Celvir leaving the
little group. She shakes her head and takes a deep breath, murmuring some
words that Feanarmo cannot hear or understand. "What are you saying now? I
was speaking about our people. And about to deal harshly with them, well,
you have been absent too much time for to know all the news about me, so
hardly you can judge me. And I only tried to arrive to Thargelion, if you
are interested to know where I went."

Feanarmo's eyes flare dangerously. His anger creeps to the surface; it is
an immortal effort indeed for him to control it all. "I care little for
your trevails and hardships, Istyarwen. We have all faced them; I have
faced many more than you might know. The simple fact does not change. You
fled. The sons of Feanor and their subjects do not flee, no matter the
cost."

"Do not speak at me so, Feanarmo. My.. walk was for personal reasons and
not for any task that I refused to face it. You should be the last to care
about the arrivals or departures of the people, you, who always appear and
disappear on your own. You, that never are beside us when we need you. Do
you have me understand?" Istyarwen reclines again against the rock, her
cheeks flushing in anger.

"You speak as a child, Istyarwen." Feanarmo says calmly, his eyebrow
raising at Istyarwen's comments. "There are more battles than those in
which you are involved."

Then, of a sudden, he turns fell and stands up ramrod straight. His voice
sounds terrible, "You forsook all personal reasons when you swore your
oath, Istyarwen. Or have you forgotten that oath?" His voice raises, and
his words become heavy with grit and the heat of anger.

Lothron frowning, steps in once again. "Both of you," he scowls at
Istyarwen, then at Feanarmo. "Shut up. Think you we have the luxury for
idle words, like those in Menegroth? Already we have delayed too long! The
midnight hour draws nigh! My lady Istyarwen, stand on your feet like a lady
of the Noldor--and let us begone!"

"Because I have not forgotten, I am in this situation." Istyarwen replies
quickly, her breath unquiet. "Now you say that I speak as a child, and what
about you, Lord Feanarmo, always involving all our kindred in troubles
because you do not know to restrain your sharper tongue as the rest do,
always thinking in you self and your personal task, and not in the problems
of our Lords?. And you, Loth Lothron, I am not one of your guards, so speak
at me in another tone!.

"Perhaps it is not my tongue that is sharp, Istyarwen," Feanarmo says
quietly, "but it is yours that is dull." Then he whirls about on the balls
of his feet and stalks off. If he hears Lord Lothron, he does not
acknowledge him. As he stalks away, his fists clench and unclench is equal
intervals.

Lothron snorts at Istyarwen's reaction, fed up with all the foolishness.
"We went over this already. When it comes to the safety of all our camp,
that is all my responsibility. Idle chatter with your fair young
Nargothrondhrim lords mayhap is your responsibility. But now you will
return with us lest you perish in the wilds!" Without awaiting a response
he turns on his heel and walks through his men, motioning with his hand
that they are to follow him.

Istyarwen raises an eyebrow. "As dull as your mind, Feanarmo, who at last
give up?". She pauses hearing the words of Lothron about Celvir and paling,
tries to follow him, but she feels still weak. "And I would return with you
if I could to walk and to ride, indeed. Perhaps you have not noticed it,
but I cannot move, Lord Lothron. Then, Should I rest here alone, another
night?".

Lothron stops, a curious smile in his face as he returns to Istyarwen once
more. "Nay, my lady, we shall bear you in our arms an we must!" With that
he stoops to pick up the slender maiden.

Istyarwen lets Lothron to pick up her with a sigh of resignation. "Do you
can tell me now if we are too much far from our camp and how much time I
have been absent?"

Lothron bears the diplomat, his strong arms apparently feeling no strain as
he walks at a normal pace. "Shush, now," he says soothingly. "We'll soon be
back at camp. It is not far, and you were not gone long." He nods his head
to his men and they move off with him, not at a run but at a swift pace
nonetheless.

