* Council Tent

You see a simple, but large tent. It is but one room, with peaked roof, strong beams of timber supporting. The floor is grass and dirt and there are no windows. From the roof beam hangs a pair of bright globe lanterns that cast ample light across the tent. In the center stands a great oaken table with many chairs around it. Maps and charts and messages litter the tabletop and picked at trays of food are near the walls.

The early morning finds Maedhros already risen. He is seated at the oaken table, penning a letter by candlelight. All is silent about him as he works, and sometimes he stares out into the darkness, or alternately at the flame of the candle. With a sigh, he puts down the pen for a minute and rests his head on his hand, still studying the flame.

Without any pomp or splendour, the guard watching the entrance of the tent steps aside to allow the entrance of Maglor. The prince of Talanost silently steps into the tent, glancing around as he does so. Spotting Maedhros, his lips curve to form a warm smile, and he makes his way toward his older brother.

Looking up, Maedhros smiles to see the dearest of his kin, and he rises to greet him with a brotherly embrace. "Cano! It is about time we had a private discussion. How fare things at the Gap? How is your wife? Have you any news?" He resumes his seat but first draws up a chair for Maglor to sit near him. He casts his eyes over the table, but seeing nothing important, returns his gaze to his brother.

Maglor returns Maedhros' embrace warmly, his whole expression softening at the gesture, "My dear brother! It is always a pleasure to see you," he accepts the offered chair with a slight nod of his head and quickly slides into his seat, crossing his legs as he sits. Taking a deep breath he says, "Well, our patrols have been spotting orcs in Lothlann, but nothing out of the ordinary. My wife is fine, although we had a sad conversation before I left Talanost. You know her," he sighs softly, "but I am glad to meet you, Maedhros. How are things here at Barad Eithel? Ever since I arrived I have heard about problems with our kinsmen."

Maedhros sits back in his chair, settling a little more comfortably, and eyes Maglor with a slight frown at his words. "You mean Orodreth and Finrod? So you heard about the council, then. Well, yes, they seem to have misgivings about any sort of action, but Finrod, at least, will not fail us, I think. Not as long as Fingolfin is resolved."

Maglor nods at that, "I am glad to hear that. But I was talking about our own people. The healer Araphel told me that one of your diplomats," he pauses for a moment, "former diplomat, actually. I was told that she ran off into the wilderness to look for a missing counsellor of yours. I sent my scouts after her, but I thought you should know about this. It seems like she left in secret."

Maedhros sits bold upright, surprise and distress clear on his features. "Can it be? Istyarwen? Is she so bereft of her senses?" He frowns. "I meant only to teach her a lesson for her impertinence, but I should not have let it go on this long. She ran off... into the wilderness? The Ard-galen? To seek my counselor?"

Maglor sighs quietly and simply nods his head. No reply comes from him for a few more moments, before he finally says, "That is her name, Istyarwen. I have been asking around...it seems like she is a rather problematic one. She caused some trouble in Nargothrond a while back."

Maedhros looks thoughtful. "Yes... She has been known to cause grief for our cousins, all in our name, of course." He shakes his head ruefully. "I should have known she would show me similar impertinence. But back to the present, what shall we do? You have sent scouts after her already?"

Maglor nods, "Yes, I did. They are scanning the plains already, although I do
not have a lot of hope to find them anymore. We will need to take care of her
if she is found though. Try to discipline her somehow, I am not sure. And I
understand that Fingon is your dear friend...I also admire him very much. But
I do not think that slapping a lady is an action taken by a gentleman like
him."

Maedhros looks up from his thought. "Slapping a lady? I have heard naught about this, but I will take it up with him. I can teach him a lesson in manners." He smiles slightly, then frowns again. "As for the maiden, methinks we will see her never again, and she shall learn discipline only from the Orcs." He seems truly distressed, and itching for action to himself set things right, but as ever he must weigh the wisdom of such actions.

Even in dark moments like this, Maedhros' words of wisdom are enough to soothe
Maglor. He smiles faintly at his brother, his expression only darkening
slightly as the orcs are mentioned. "I am afraid that is the sad truth. But
enough of that. How are you, my brother? When do we ride to war?"

Maedhros stands and stretches his limbs with a barely suppressed yawn, then relaxes his shoulders. He stares out between the tent-flaps at the lightening sky. "In a month's time," he replies in a low voice. "Are your armies mustered, Canafinwe? Surely you received my message, or you would not be here now." He looks down at his brother. "At last it is starting. The time for abiding in peace is no more, and the Oath must awaken in our hearts, maybe."

Maglor. bows his head solemnly, "My army is ready, Brother. So am I. If we are
already immersed in darkness by our Oath, let us at least use it to make
something good happen. May the Dark Enemy fall before the Sons of Feanor. Only
then Beleriand shall know peace," he pauses for a moment, "But I only came to
check on you. I must go see my war captains. Farewell, Brother."

Maedhros nods and claps Maglor on the shoulder. "You will not break your fast with me? Very well, then at least we will dine together tonight." With a smile he claps his brother on the shoulder again then sinks back down to his chair, and taking his pen in hand, stares at the candle-flame again. It gives little light now, for the sun is risen. Yet Maedhros lets it burn still.

