* Barad Eithel -- Council Chambers

A wide table of polished oak takes up the center of the room with several
chairs arranged around it; a larger chair has been placed at the head of
the table. A window looks out to the east, letting in the morning light and
providing a view of the wide plains which open out in the distance. In the
corner, a fire burns in a small hearth and a few, very intricate tapestries
cover the stone walls.

This is where the High King holds his private meetings, discussing plans
and formulating policies with his close advisors and most trusted
commanders. Maps and plans, records and reports are often kept here in
cabinets or chests: to be discussed and debated until the High King speaks
his mind.

Above this chamber the tower continues upwards, providing housing and
storage for the High King's personal Guard and servants, and higher still
are the quarters for the High King himself.

Maedhros the Tall, Eldest Son of Feanor, sits already in a chair to the
left of the High Seat, intently studying several parchments before him,
some of which appear to be maps. As the council files in, he silently notes
each: Dwarf-lords from the Blue Mountains, Edain of Beor's house, Hador and
his house from Dor-lomin, Finrod Felagund and the Noldor of Nargothrond,
and finally Fingolfin, High King, with the Noldor of the North. As the
latter enters, Maedhros rises to his feet out of respect, waiting for the
King to take his seat and call the council to order before sitting again.

Moving towards the hearth Valnen leans down and takes a couple logs,tossing
them on to the small fire that burns within. As he walks towards the window
to take his place, his eyes gaze out upon the wide plains basking in the
beauty of the day,gathering his focus he turns his attentions back to the
council and his duty as a Spearman in the High Kings Army.

The rising sun begins to light the council chamber, though a fire burns in
the hearth, warming it, and lighted globes hang in sconces on the walls.
Many chairs are set at the large table, and at each is placed a goblet
filled with clear, golden liquid. parchments and maps are scattered on the
table, readily available to those who might need to examine them.

Fingolfin does enter, his smile grateful and yet stern as he studies those
there gathered. Last his eyes fall upon Maedhros there before him, and he
nods, his smile broadening. "Welcome lords and ladies; my thanks for your
coming. I know the hour is early, so I will spare you... an interminable
speech." He pauses, shaking his head. "Please, be seated, and let us
begin."

Although he smiles and nods to his kindred as he enters the room, it is
clear from his troubled expression that Finrod is not pleased by the
proceedings. He speaks quietly to Fairfax as they approach the table, then
takes a seat to the side of Fingon's chair.

Entering the room, the Khazad Lord moves to a seat away from the rest, and
sitting down quietly he lets his fingers wind themselves into his beard.

Hador. also moves his way to a seat, alighting across the table from the
window basking in the sunlight while he may.

There is little time wasted by the Lord of Thargelion, Caranthir the Dark,
as he makes his way quickly to his seat to the left of Maedhros his
brother. His watches the rest of the council gather with a hot stare.

Gundor. following his Father, a mear step behind, his Son sits in the seat
next to him. He drops lighty in the seat and smiles as chairs begins to
fill with many folk from all about. He seems now content.

Lord Narag enters with a huff, as if short of breath from running to catch
up. Noting that Lord Baraz is there before him--and everyone else is before
him, for that matter--he scowls, his face red, and hurriedly takes a seat
beside him at the far end of the table on the side to Fingolfin's left.

Looking weary and drawn, Emeldir sinks into the nearest chair at
Fingolfin's behest. Several of Bregolas and Barahir's company sit with her,
a young lass passing a waterskin to the lady after she is seated.

Fairfax enters the room and follows Finrod closely all the way. She looks a
bit nervous or perhaps just out of her element, somewhat. With a glance
around her, she takes a seat by Felagund's side. Her eyes then proceed to
examine all those gathered and settling down in their places.

Breg walks in slowly pearing into the pages of a large book as he walks.
Looking up as he enters the room he notices the lords Dror and Telchar
across the room. Closing his tome he marches over and takes a seat beside
them.

When all are seated, Fingolfin rises from his chair, his gaze going to the
eastern window. For a moment he is silent, as if gathering his thought, and
then he begins. "These... are troubled times," he says, his voice not loud,
and yet carrying easily in the room. "Hosts out of Angband trouble the
world, daring to venture even near places...' He looks at Finrod and nods.
"...so well-hidden we thought them safe refuge. My heart was troubled in
Nargothrond by the boldness of the Lord of Thralls, but... I waited. And
now even Balrogs walk not much more than a day's ride from Himring, and
orcs wander at will nigh at hand to the Land of Pines." Fingolfin sighs,
and looks at each person seated before him. "I have called you here... to
ask for your aid. I intend to go to war against the dark host, and drive
them back to Angband." He them takes his seat, and waits.

Maedhros swiftly returns to his seat, and waits for Fingolfin to conduct
the business of the meeting. He frowns slightly at the commotion, drumming
the fingers of his left hand upon the oak table in slight impatience. He
finally relaxes and focuses his attention on the High King as he speaks,
nodding his head firmly in agreement, but still refraining from speech
until he is called upon.

"Driving back the enemy is always a worthwhile endeavor," Finrod speaks up
cautiously. Although he does not rise from his chair, his clear voice
carries across the room.

The Beorians watch and listen closely, Emeldir looking between the Elf
Lords, her brow furrowing at the mention of orcs wandering so near to
Dorthonion.

Fairfax tries to look calm and collected. Her only reaction to Fingolfin's
words is to look at Finrod for his own reaction. Slender fingers from one
of her hands do, however, come up to her throat and start fidgeting with
her necklace.

In a corner not far from the table where the council sits, Araphel slips
quietly into a small nook, taking a seat unobtrusively and watching for the
reaction of the group, folding her hands in her lap.

The son of Finwe reaches for his goblet, taking a long drink as Finrod
speaks. He nods, and then adds, his voice softer still, "And, should we win
that far, what then might we do? Attack the Thangorodrim itself and throw
down the Bauglir?" He looks at Maedhros, and then to Finrod, who had spoken
before. "What say you to this, Finrod?"

For a long moment Finrod is silent, staring at his uncle with an unreadable
expression. Finally, he draws in a deep breath and says in a low voice,
"You know my opinion of this plan. We have spoken of this before. I think
this suggestion is unwise and unnecessary. You would take a short stick and
prod at the nest of hornets. In doing so, you would risk the peace we have
maintained for centuries in this land."

Caranthir can bear it no longer. He speaks up, his voice bitter and every
word cut short. "No more of this talk will endure! You speak as fishwives,
bandying about words and then retracting them upon an instant. If you wish
to speak, speak with a full heart and mean every word! Such a council as
this is no council, but rather a circle of cravery." He draws a breath as
if to speak more, his eyes flaming like two burning brands.

Maedhros rises to his feet, standing tall over his brother, to whom he
swiftly speaks as he lays his left hand upon his shoulder as if to
physically restrain his hasty brother. "Be civil, brother! By Finwe! I will
speak for the Sons of Feanor!" He turns to face the council with an
apologetic smile. "O Fingolfin, King of the North, may I speak?" He remains
standing, his hand still on Caranthir's shoulder as if to restrain him, but
he towers over Fingolfin too, and all the council.

Gundor. leans back in the chair, his eyes go from speaker to speaker, calm
and set they are, at points he looks to his father, but he says nought,
leaving his Father to talk for now.

"You may speak, Maedhros," answers Fingolfin, though his eyes are dark, and
he does not smile.

Finrod seems largely unconcerned by Caranthir's outburst. Although his eyes
narrow slightly at his cousin's words, he makes no comment in reply. When
Maedhros speaks up, he smiles faintly and sits back to listen.

"Friends, allies, kin, and ye Edain and Naugrim," Maedhros begins, looking
at all present in turn, but lighting finally upon Finrod, to whom his words
seem primarily focused at first. "Surely ye have heard the old proverb: it
takes but one foe to start a war. The Long Peace is coming to an end, and
through no doing of our own, but because of he who sits on his throne
unassailed, building his armies. Now he ever increasingly assails our
folk--shall we allow the Foe to continue unrestrained?" His voice rises to
a passion, his right arm raised as if unconsciously, for all to behold the
missing hand. "Nay, at the very least let us hem him in once more as we did
after the Dagor Aglareb! For I say to you know that only by our inaction
will Morgoth have victory!"

Taking a sip of water from the 'skin as she listens, brow still furrowed,
Emeldir daubs at her cheeks with a soft cloth as well, her complexion grey
and pale as she gives her attention now to the Feanorian King.

"Nor would I say that, since the Aglareb, that we have had peace
unassailed,' remarks Fingolfin, his eyes brightening. He seems about to say
more, yet his eyes catch sight of the grey-faced adaneth, and he gazes
concernedly at the Lady of Ladros. "Lady Emeldir," he calls, his voice
calm, yet concerned. "Do our words distress you so, or is there aught
amiss? I pray you, speak of it here..."

Maedhros appears ready to speak more, and for a moment appears annoyed that
his speech has been cut off by mortals. However, he resumes a look of
patience on his face and returns to his seat, a slight nod to Gundor to
indicate he heard his words. His eyes focus once again on his maps and
parchments as he waits for his turn to speak, paying scant attention to the
words of the Edain as if in deep thought.

Surprised when the High King calls upon her, Emeldir waits until after
Gundor has spoken before replying to Fingolfin's question. "Nay Aran," she
answers in a quiet tone, head inclined respectfully towards Fingolfin, "I
am fine, just ... tired from the journey," she adds.

Caranthir, however, possesses none of the control gifted to his elder
brother. He opens his mouth, his lips curling angrily and his breath
seeming to coagulate in front of him into crystalline daggers of hatred.
But then, as he glances aside to Maedhros, he growls low in his throat and
remains seated and calm for the time being.

Fingolfin nods to Emeldir, though he remains silent for a moment, perhaps
expecting more, perhaps just considering that it is she who sits there and
not her husband. Yet when he speaks, it is to address Gundor's words. "I
know we cannot fence him in on all sides, and.... I would not ask you to
endure the agony of the frozen wastes. There the only fight.... is to
survive." He pauses a moment, his eyes dark. "Yet I would say, that ever
Morgoth has underestimated the valour of the edain, focusing the brunt of
his will against the Noldor. But see? we have here edain strong and
valiant, and even... dwarves from out of Nogrod have come.... I ask you,
would you join yourselves to my cause?" He looks once more to Emeldir, and
then to Hador and the Lords of Nogrod.

With a shake of his head, Finrod pushes to his feet. "While I respect your
words," he says to Fingolfin and Maedhros, "I still counsel caution in this
regard. Could all the might of the Eldar and Edain combined break through
the iron gates of the north? I think not. And yet, we have not all out
might. For King Thingol, who has been aggrieved by our past actions, is
loathe to send his folk to die beside us." Turning to Caranthir, he adds
quietly, "Craven, you would call us? Perhaps, but there is also wisdom in
peace. For we cannot win this day with the force of our arrogance alone.
Would that we could do so, since we have arrogance in such abundance."

At the call from Fingolfin, Emeldir rises from her seat, color now returned
to her face. She looks about the council chamber before speaking up, "Aran,
the Beorians have long said they will fight to keep the forces of the Enemy
from Dorthonion, aye from Beleriand," she vows in a clear voice that
carries to all. With an apologetic glance towards Lord Felagund, she goes
further, "The House of Beor will stand with ye, High King."

"Return to thy caves, worm." Caranthir sneers; while the will of Maedhros
is strong, it cannot restrain Caranthir in all ways. "And leave the
fighting to the more hale of the descendents of Finwe. Nargothrond will be
safe behind the might of Fingolfin and of the sons of Feanor."

Placing a hand on the table infront of him Hador has listened quietly so
far, but with the gaze of his lord passing across his face he can stay
silent no longer. And so he stands briefly, "I grow no younger." He starts,
an evident statement, "And perhaps in doing so I have incurred the wrath of
some among us. However, while I still draw breath I will come to battle
when needed by those I dare to call friends. The question is not whether we
shall, but when, and where shall we pick our battle. Indeed it must be with
caution and consideration, for in our haste we would set our own traps
against ourselves." As he retakes his seat, he nods to Fingolfin, "My
people will stand by your side for now and always."

Listening to the words of his King and those gathered around the table,once
again Valnen's gaze is drawn towards the window and the eastern plains.
Looming in the distance Thangorodrim,a nd the dark smoky outline of the
Ered Engrin...."Stronger and bolder the dark host grows everyday." he
thinks to himself. Upon hearing the wrath of his Kings voice he snaps back
to attention and regains his focus on those assembled.

With a sigh of frustration and anger, Maedhros nods at Caranthir. "Go, get
ye hence, if ye will be so." His voice starts low, his teeth grating. "Must
I always be caught between my friends and my brothers? Must I ever restrain
you? Will you not silence your tongue and allow your ears to hear and your
heart to think? You do naught but harm to our cause by such
words--therefore begone, or will you cross even me?" His voice rises to a
pitch of righteous rage, anger against his doom, even as he rises to his
feet to stand with Fingolfin.

Eyes widening, Araphel draws her feet carefully up into the windowseat,
sliding further back into a more hidden position as she sighs anxiously,
though the sound does not carry so far as the council table.

Rising in fell rage, as Feanor in the days of old, Caranthir jumps to his
feet and sweeps an icy gaze across the council table. "I will have no
contention between any of my brothers. If you wish me away, then away I
shall go. But remember well the dying words of our father, spoken not far
from this place." And then he, stalking with fists clenched and eyes
blazing, makes away from the table and from the "craven circle" as he
called it.

The King of Nargothrond remains standing, watching Caranthir cooly. "Nay,
Maedhros," he says, his eyes never leaving Caranthir's face, "I shall
leave. Apparently my words are disrupting the meeting. Fairfax, a worthy
citizen of my realm, shall represent me for the rest of the meeting, unless
one of my brothers should arrive." He smiles at Fairfax briefly and speaks
a few quiet words, then straightens and turns toward his uncle. "Whatever
you decide at this gathering, Nargothrond shall support you. I shall ride
beside you in battle and lend my sword to yours. For the Nargothrondhrim
are not cowards no matter what names others might give us. Yet I say this
to you Fingolfin Nolofinwe, High King of the Noldor, and to you personally.
When at last the might of the Enemy sweeps down from the north, I think
that your shoulders shall feel the weight of his wrath more than any
others. I suggest you think long and well before you invite that wrath."

Finrod exits the room and takes the stairs down toward the Hall below.

Fairfax half rises in her chair and then sits back down, eyes wide open and
facing her king in disbelief. She blushes somewhat, her face seeming softer
as she does so. She nods to Finrod's words, spoken quietly for her ears
alone, and then watches him leave the room as if in a daze herself. The
black-haired maiden tries to look self-assured as she turns back to the
council.

Dror, the Dwarf-lord, looks up at the commotion from studying the golden
liquid that he found in his goblet. His bearded face splits slightly into a
grin as he addresses the tall lords at the head of the table. "Aye, the
Dwarves will stand with ye in war on the East Marches. If it comes to that.
And more, methinks ye will have need of the works of our forges, bright
helms and sharp swords, and strong coats of mail from Belegost."

Seated once more, Emeldir is stunned by the emotional outbursts within the
chamber, though she well understands them herself--worried even now for
both her husband and son, of whom no word had been heard ere the travelers
left Dorthonion. Tis the first she has seen of such, though, from the
reined-in First Born. Mayhap this last great battle will serve to sway a
decisive response.

Gundor. leans over as his father beckons him. Whispered words are exchanged
and he nods to his father as he leans back in his seat. He watches closely
and with great ernest the words between the Princes and his face bares no
expression for now.

Hador sits back in his chair, seemingly settled despite the proceedings.

Somehow Araphel looks strangely relieved at Caranthir's words, and she
looks to Maedhros and Fingolfin, as if waiting for what they may say next.
Careful not to make a sound, she pushes a stray lock of raven hair out of
her eyes and settles back against the wall of the windowseat.

Maedhros casts a questioning glance at Fingolfin, who stands beside him,
wondering whether the answer to the Dwarf's implied question will finally
be resolved--do we take action, yea or nay? There is no doubt on the Lord
of Himring's face.

Fairfax looks from one face to the next, not really sure how to behave now
that her king has stormed out of the room. She does set her eyes on the
high king, waiting to measure his reaction.

Hearing the words of the Dwarf Lord he looks to Fingolfin,as he does so
Valnen notices almost every other face has turned to listen to the words of
the High King.

Caranthir. exits the room and takes the stairs down toward the Hall below.

Fingolfin nods at the words of Dror, and yet it is to the door that his
eyes stray, the door out of which Finrod left. The younger Noldo's words
ring still in his ears, and he cannot forget them. Yet there is a silence,
and he turns his gaze to the others seated at the table, though he does not
re-take his chair. "So be it," he says, his voice softer than before, but
the tone set and grim. A look of sorrow passes briefly in his eyes, and
then is gone. "So be it!" he says again, and this time his words ring in
the chamber. "We shall indeed have need of your labours, Lord Dror, for we
go to war." His gaze sweeps around the room, falling on adan and quende
alike, not sparing even spearmen and hiding healers. "So I would ask of
you, how long will it take to muster each your forces, and prepare for
battle?"

Gundor. smiles and nods again to his father, "M'Lord Fingolfin, if you
would permit me to speak for my folk, my Father wishes it." he looks to the
High King and his Lord, he awaits invitation now, for he was aware of his
rash words prior, perhaps a Fathers word.

Fairfax's eyes widen a little in surprise at the high king's words, but she
quickly lowers them to the table with a slight shake of her head and a soft
but audible sigh.

The company of the First House of the Edain rise quickly in heed to
Fingolfin's call, "Speaking on behalf of Lords Bregolas and Barahir, the
House of Beor is prepared even now, Aran," Emeldir declares. She does nod
in acknowledgement to the Khazad Lord, "We would, though, be grateful for
additional armour, Lord Dror," she adds.

Maedhros nods approval at Fingolfin's words which finally bring an end to
debate. "The Sons of Feanor are ready for war," he says simply.

Though sorrow darkens Araphel's eyes, the young healer nods, even though
the question is one already answered by the appropriate parties - in
approval of Maedhros's words, perhaps, for she smiles a little. The
expression, though, is sad. . .and yet there is a certain peace in it as
she looks from her Prince to the High King, hands still folded in her lap
as she watches and listens.

Fairfax takes another deep breath, plants her hands on the table and rises.
Half leaning on the table, she turns her head towards Fingolfin and her
voice is finally heard across the room as she speaks openly for the first
time. "As my lord aran Felagund said, we stand with you and support your
decision, high king Fingolfin" Her voice is soft and crystalline and her
face, though not at all happy, at least conveys a measure of serenity she
had failed to show up to this point. "Nargothrond shall ready its forces
and come to your aid." She sits once more, her eyes still on Fingolfin.

'You may speak for your father," answers Fingolfin with a smile to Gundor.
"And wise words he spoke, that we should not march blindly, but set a
clearer plan. So even do I intend." And then he turns to Fairfax and
smiles."I will not ask you for such a response, lady Fairfax, unless indeed
you know the answer. Else I shall seek out the son of my brother, seek out
your lord, and speak to him myself."

Fairfax blushes again, clearly back to feeling uncomfortable, but she
bravely endures Fingolfin's gaze. She nods in aquiescence. "Yes of course,
High king." Fingers upon her lap fidget nervously. "I did not mean to
presume. However aran Felagund did state himself that he would abide your
decision. I fear I spoke hastily and will rephrase, if you'll allow me.
Nargothrond will stand by you. The when and how only aran Felagund will be
able to tell you, high king"

Gundor. speaks his voice deep and formal, but fair to listen too, "Well the
Folk of Hador are ever ready for war and ever at yourside as my father
said. We stand to both march with you and hold your lands and Fortresses
Barad Eithel, Hithlum and our own lands we protect as one, but we will
march to Thangorodrim itself if you deem that the course." He looks to the
Dwarf, "We have no shortages of forges in our lands but your skill is well
known and all from miller to brewer would walk if we needed them and all do
not have war tools so again I would greet any aid warmly."

"My thanks, lady Fairfax," answers Fingolfin, with rare warmth in his
smile, and then he pauses to listen to Gundor, nodding to the young adan
Prince.

Dror nods to all who speak of requiring services, and seems to be making up
a tally.

"O King," Maedhros raises his voice once more, bowing deferentially to
Fingolfin. "You speak of a clearer plan. May I have leave to speak, then,
and expound upon some possibilities?" He begins to shuffle with some maps
on the table, then pauses, looking around with a piercing glance. "That is,
if all here present at this council are to be counted trustworthy."

The High King turns to Maedhros, and once more anger flashes in his eyes,
though it is restrained. "I fear no treachery here," he says calmly,
choosing the word carefully. "You have my leave to speak, and to speak
clearly." He seats himself at last, again drinking fromhis goblet. "Please,
go on.'

Stepping away from the window a bit, Valnen moves closer to the table so as
to be able to see the maps Maedhros has layed out.

Longingly Araphel looks towards the table, but she remains curled in the
windowseat as Maedhros prepares to describe his plans, listening intently.
The Beorians take no affront at Maedhros' words, giving the Feanorian
prince their full attentions.

Maedhros says, "Nay, I meant nothing by it. Mayhap the House of Fingolfin
can vouch for the House of Hador, and the House of Finarfin can vouch for
the House of Beor, but I know them not." He shrugs slightly, sighs that his
words were taken as accusation, but moves on nonetheless to business.
Finding his largest map, he beckons to two pages and has them hold it up
for all to see. "There, perhaps it will be easier for all to see now, for
it is a large table," he begins.

Fairfax takes a little breath of relief when Fingolfin's attention moves on
towards other people. She leans forward to grasp a goblet from which she
takes a sip. As she sets it down, she lets her eyes linger on the maps.

"Continue, please," says Fingolfin, looking closely at the map, though he
knows it well.

Using a stick to point to the map, Maedhros continues, sometimes turning to
face the council, sometimes looking at the map as he explains. "As you can
see, this is a map of the Highlands. Here in the west is Hithlum, here is
Dorthonion, and here are the Hills of Himring and the east Marches. And
here in the north, of course, Thangorodrim and Dor Daedeloth, land of
shadow and horror. To the south lies Beleriand the fair..."

Fingolfin nods, waiting to hear more, though his eyes now stray to those
gathered about the table, lingering on each for a moment. An encouraging
smile to Fairfax he gives, and then a nod to Emeldir. He watches her
intently, still concerned for her, brfore turning to gaze once more at the
map.

Maedhros says, "It seems crucial to me that we guard against falling into a
trap--we must always cover our retreat and make sure the passes into
Beleriand are secure before we mount an assault. Therefore the first stage
is to fully garrison our defenses. Here," he points to Barad Eithel, "will
stand Fingolfin and Fingon, and with them their folk and their allies, the
Edain of Marach's house of Dor-lomin. There will stand the bulk of our
offensive force. In the middle the Sons of Finarfin will stand with their
allies, the Edain of Beor's house, here," he points to Tol Sirion, "in the
Gap of Sirion, fortress of Finrod and Orodreth, and here," he points to
Dorthonion, "Angrod and Aegnor. And of course, the eastern front will be
held by the Sons of Feanor and the Dwarves of Mount Dolmed." He pauses to
take a sip from his goblet, and to allow any comments.

Leaning forward, Emeldir follows Maedhros closely as he gestures to the
map, the company of the Beorians making careful note of their placement at
both Tol Sirion and in Dorthonion itself, at the fortress of Angrod and
Aegnor.

Fairfax just calmly stares at the map. She makes no comment but takes a
mental note of the placement of Finarfin's sons.

Fingolfin stands, now, nodding to the eldest son of Feanor, his eyes intent
upon the map. "Wisely planned, Hir Maedhros," he says quietly. 'Wisely
planned and indeed echoing my thoughts. So shall we garrison our defenses;
indeed much of that is in preparation. That done, we shall be strong
against attack, should it come. And then we shall send forth our forces....
Horse and footmen from the Barad Eithel, and the same from the East. Like a
vice we shall close about the forces of Angband, and sweep them before us."
He looks once more to the map. And then the forces of Dorthonion and Tol
Sirion may drive the foe northwards... towards the Thangorodrim." He nods
to himself. Yet, in widom Maedhros has spoken, and I concur. We shall leave
many of our forces garrisoned, as defence or as a second wave as needed."
He too, pauses, and looks around the room, waiting.

Looking at the map and listening to the lords speak this seems to be the
best course of action against the dark shadow of Angband. Valnen turns from
the map and starts to heads back to the window, but he stops in his tracks
upon seeing the sun dipping below the horizon,he turns to his
King..."M'Lord the time is late with your leave i must attend to my
duties."

Through the doors enters Orodreth, second son of Finarfin. He offers an
easy smile to all in the room and a bow to the HIgh King to whom he states
a quick apology for his lateness. He removes his gloves and tucks them into
a fancy belt as he approaches the table.

"You have my leave, Valnen," answers Fingolfin, with a nod to the spearman.
And then he looks towards the door as it opens, and gazes at Orodreth. "You
are welcome, brother-son," he says. "Please, sit." So saying, he looks
around the room. "My lords and ladies, what say you to this course of
action?"

Valnen exits the room and takes the stairs down toward the Hall below.

Inclining her head with respect, Emeldir speaks up, "The Beorians stand by
the plan, and will defend Tol Sirion and the Fortress of Angrod and Aegnor,
Aran," she pledges, speaking on behalf of Lords Bregolas and Barahir.

Orodreth softly clears his throat after sitting and says, "As the regent of
Minas Tirith, I suppose I should add a footnote to this plan, if I may? Has
my brother been here and spoken his thoughts of Nargothrond's actions in
this?"

A voice by the entrance, making his way in, attracts Fairfax's attention
away from the map. She turns her head and it is with visible relief that
she recognizes the countenance of the Lord of Minas Tirith. Discretely, she
wipes her palms on her pants, pretending to be smoothing them over her
legs. She leans back a little in her seat as Orodreth speaks, only to lean
forward once more with a glance at Fingolfin. "If I may..." she turns
almost immediately - somewhat eagerly, perhaps - to Orodreth. "Indeed aran
Felagund was here in the beginning, but he left in haste, ere the plan was
explained and left me to represent Nargothrond. He has stated only that he
would stand by whatever course of action aran Fingolfin would decide upon."

Orodreth nods to Fairfax and waits to address the King and Maedhros.

Maedhros nods at the proceedings. "We will not fail you," he says to
Fingolfin in a light tone, for it is already a foregone conclusion that the
Sons of Feanor are eager to battle the Constrainer. Nodding to Orodreth, he
politely says, "Please, good Orodreth, speak, for we have need of your
wisdom."

And too, Fingolfin nods, seeming more at ease than he had earlier. "Please,
Hir Orodreth, I would hear your words, for indeed this concerns you
closely.

Gundor. has watched all with an even gaze, nodding at parts which seemed
most pertinent to him. His Father still at his side, sits contemplating the
words as well.

Orodreth rubs his hands together and says, "If Finrod did not have the
chance to speak his mind then perhaps I should speak it for him, though I
do not necessarily agree with him. Do not believe Finrod supports this
plan, though he claims he will aid you if decided. He has spoken to me that
he believes your judgement to be in error on this. Yes, I am positioned at
Minas Tirith with a garrison of soldiers, however, I would name Minas
Tirith the weakest, and yet in a way, the most important part of the front.
We should not lose control of the river or I fear we shall not regain it.
Lady Emeldir has spoken that the Men of Dorthonion will come to our aid,
yet it is Dorthonion they must defend and should not over-extend their
defenses lest they lose their own home. But I am concerned because I cannot
say that this decision will necessarily be popular in Nargothrond and I
fear help from the south may come to late. I shall, with the bidding of the
Valar, hold Minas Tirith to the extent of my abilities, but if I have
little more than I have now, it shall not be enough if the Enemy attacks
with the full measure to the center. Have you cause to think he will
concentrate elsewhere?"

Emeldir looks to Orodreth as he speaks, nodding her head slowly to
acknowledge his point. "The forces of Beor may likely be mainly engaged in
protecting Dorthonion, My Lords," she concedes as she speaks out. "We will,
however, do all that we can to push back the Enemy," she vows once more.

Maedhros shakes his head, once more using the stick to point to the map for
emphasis. "Nargothrond has the mightiest force of numbers. Surely, together
with the garrison at Minas Tirith, they may hold Tol Sirion? And it is not
the weakest point, either. My folk must hold the Pass of Algon, here, and
here, Maglor's Gap, which would be easily forced by a large force from the
Enemy; but--I do not greatly fear assault from Angband, as long as we are
swift in taking the offensive."

Orodreth clears his throat in a slightly nervous manner for he is not
accustomed to challenging anyone the likes of Maedhros, but he speaks in an
even and confident voice, "I mean to say, that if I receive no or limited
support from the south, I am the weakest point. And I am weak because I am
nearer then ENemy than the Sons, therefore the Enemy is stronger if I
should bear an attack. But if it is an offense you desire, and I am not
sure I shall or should participate. And why you might ask? Because if I am
in the offensive, then who shall guard the River? You make some assumptions
about the force of Nargothrond, Maedhros, Son of Feanor. I do not hold as
much confidence in them as you, yet I know them better. It is not to say
things will not work out as you say, but I should hate to fail because of
lack of foresight."

Maedhros makes an impatient gesture at the words of the meek Son of
Finarfin. "Findarato gave his word," he says, using his Quenya name, "that
he would stand with us, and we must now trust to him and plan accordingly.
As for you, Artaresto, there was never a doubt in our minds, at least, that
we could trust you to guard our retreat." His voice contains no hint of a
sneer, but he moves on rapidly. "As for the East, much strength lies in the
realms of my brothers, but as for that, we fear not too greatly. For our
priority lies in the charge our father set us, ere he died. And so we shall
stand with this alliance, ye may be sure. I drink: to the Union of
Fingolfin!" He raises his goblet.

Orodreth raises his own drink but casts a glance aside to the Dorthonion
contingent. It is not a look of confidence.

Fingolfin nods his head, though he gives a long look to Orodreth. "It is
decided, then," he answers, his tone less triumphant than gravely calm. And
though there is sorrow in his eyes, there is no doubt, and the light in
them shines bright. "To our Union,' he echoes, raising uphis own glass.

Orodreth says softly, "Long shall it stand." and drinks.

Dror drains his second glass cheerfully.

Gundor. lifts a glass and rinks, he mouths a wordless toast and looks on
thoughtfully, almost exactly as if his father next to him, just with many
less winters on his head.

Maedhros drains his glass and heaves a contented sigh. "Let us muster our
armies, therefore, and we shall catch these Orcs in our vice, cleanse
Ard-galen of their defilement, and put Angband under a mighty siege! I
shall ride soon."

From her vantage point in the windowseat, Araphel smiles, though only a
slight one it is. At Maedhros's words, she nods, though obviously more to
herself than to anyone else.

Keen eyes look about the room, and at last Fingolfin drinks, draining his
glass. And then he turns his head to face the eastern window, where the
darkness on the northern horizon can be descried. "If you could bring word
to me, all of you, of the number of your muster and when your defences are
ready and garrisoned..." He looks back at those assembled, nodding once
more."We will then set the day of battle, and free the world forever from
the power of Morgoth. Until then... unless any of you has more to say--?"

Maedhros nods, repeating, "We will not fail." He is already rolling up his
scrolls and maps, judging the council to be ended for the most part.

"Then I hold this council adjourned, and thank you all for coming," answers
the High King, sinking at last back into his seat.

