* Barad Eithel -- Outer Courtyard

High walls and lofty towers cast their long shadows down into the courtyard 
below. Troops often train here, learning the skills which will protect them 
against an implaccable foe always more numerous than they. At times, the whole 
of the fortress gathers here to hear the words of their commanders or of the 
High King himself...or to muster for battle.

Ringing the courtyard are the grainaries, armouries, smithies, stables, and 
other buildings which support and provide for the fortress in peace and in war.

As morning dawns, Maedhros can be seen in the quiet courtyard, alone for a few 
minutes. Sword in hand--his left--he appears to be doing some exercises.

Fingon enters the courtyard, Two-handed sword slung over his back, grin upon 
his face as he sees his cousin...

Maedhros eyes Fingon with mock-anger. He raises his sword in a salute, then 
holds it out, taking a defensive stance. "Sir, defend yourself!" he calls.

An evil grin appears on the face of Fingon. He stops, planting his feet apart, 
unslinging the large sword..."Cousin..it has been a while since we have had 
some.....fun?" With that he lowers the weapon to an attack position...

Ruahine comes down from the dwarven caravans after hearing some noise from the 
courtyard. He sees what it is, and seems to decide he'll sit back and watch 
the spectacle

Maedhros growls. He lightly clashes his sword with his cousin's, then attempts 
to tap it out of the way and take a slash at Fingon's arm.

You attack Fingon with your Broadsword...he deftly avoids your attack.

The move by his cousin expected, Fingon quickly dodges to the side and tries 
to use the flat of his blade to knock Maedhros off balance...

Fingon attacks you with his Two-handed Sword...hitting and mildly wounding you!

Maedhros. stumbles to catch his balance, and howls with rage. "First blood 
shall be mine, thou foe!" He swings himself suddenly, jumping to Fingon's 
side, aiming a blow at this bottom.

You attack Fingon with your Broadsword...he easily avoids your attack.

Fingon laughs at his cousin's mock battle cries...but not enough to not see 
the next strike coming. He easily avoids it again..."Doest thou grow tired, my 
kin?" he says half-mockingly and begins a series of moves meant to throw his 
opponent completely off balence by striking at his legs...

Fingon attacks you with his Two-handed Sword...hitting and mildly wounding you!

Maedhros laughs, and sheathes his sword, examining the scratch on his leg. 
"Enough! You win this time, and truly, I am tired. I have lost too much sleep 
these past days." He shakes his head, but sports a slight grin and claps his 
mighty cousin on the back.

Ruahine laughs at the two men and their odd habits

"Ok..Ok...I will let you go this time." he responds with a wink. "Come, join 
me for a cup of wine later in the Hall," he finishes as he too sheathes his 
sword and grabs a towel from a nearby bench to wipe the sweat away from his 
face. "We still have much to discuss..." As the dwarf laughs, Fingon gives him 
an odd look but says nothing...remembering that it is *only* a dwarf...

Ruahine suddenly spins around with axe in his hand making it fly everywhere 
towards everyone, without striking a target. He then jumps back, pokes his 
tongue out at the two men, then runs for the safety of the caravans

Maedhros gives the funny little creature a strange look, then laughs out 
lound, and clasps his cousin on the shoulder once more, responding, "Aye, we 
shall speak later." He returns to his tent.

