* War Camp of the Feanorians

This is a great sea of white canvas tents and guttering camp fires, set in orderly ranks around a massive central cooking fire. The tents are arranged so that there are great pavilions surrouned with the smaller tents of the soldiers. The camp stretches for quite a distance. Along the outsides of the camp are picket lines where are tethered great elven steeds. By an estimation of two elves per tent and by the number of horses, this encampment must support at least seven hundred cavalry and nearly three thousand elven foot soldiers. The pennants and banners of Feanor lands snap over this place, over one of the main tents is Maedhros the Tall's, over another, Maglor the Mighty, then Celegorm the Fair, and the colors of Estolad and Thargelion are there too, but no pavilion bears these colors, only certain of the smaller tents. All in all, this seems no minor camping excersion for entertainment, but a veritable host of the Noldo.

The jingle of bells comes from the southwest. With it, the distinct sound of hooves rumble down the road greeting the dawn. It is thus that Herunomen rides toward the encampment upon an elven horse fair and bright. Slowing his steed, he checks him to a sturdy pace before coming among the camps. He dismounts lightly and then enters the encampment. The arch into the camp is now filled with a figure fair and bright. Shining eyes are set in his brow and a look of troubled ages. His garment is fair, though way-worn, as the care of the road has essayed to wear down those clothes woven by fair and fine elven craft. It is thus that Herunomen has returned to his people.

Although the sky is still covered for the stars, some activity begins to start in the Feanorian Camp. The tents are illuminated already and guards and servants move in the camp. Leaving it a maiden involved in a light cloak walks slowly towards the square of the village, a bit lost her look, as she was pensive. She glances at the sky trying to guess the future weather or admiring the beauty of the night, who knows. Even walking slowly, she begins to murmur a song, tilting her body sometimes.

Herunomen pauses and listens perforce to the song and his keen ears are swooned by the words of the Elven-maid. Keen and heart piercing it seems as his eyes soften to turn and look upon her for a moment. He is yet silent and pensive, a dark foreboding upon his eyes. "Dawn," murmurs the voice of Herunomen and then his own voice lifts up in a song to greet the day.

From the twilit years by the mountains shade,
The hills of Aman were darkened,
From the waters of the everlake nigh the sweet glade,
The light of heaven was softened,
But then in the hither land I walked at last,
And flowers arose at my feet,
For the bright flower of Telperion,
Rose from heaven's seat.

Then the elf is silent, and he sings no more. Yet his eyes do not look toward heaven, but to the earth - brown and silent in the long shadows of the dawn.

A lone pillar of silver, a knight of the Diamond's silhouette is visible at the perimeter of the camp. He is on watch, his shift nearing the end of its four hours time. He silently gazes outward and then inward, sometimes pacing to and fro, at other times still as a statue. Upon hearing the stirrings in the camp, he looks over the camp with a proud smile, silently awaiting his relief. He does not regard his task as menial, rather he delights in any simple duty to serve the Sons of Feanor and his folk.

The new day comes and Istyarwen looks at the dawn. Listening at one song near her, she glances around and discovers the figure of Herunomen. Caught in surprise, the maiden walks quickly towards him and arriving beside him, bows and says: "Have a Good Morning, My Lord. It is nice to see you again. Long ago we had not met. I believed you were in Himring with Prince Maedhros..".

Glancing up, the Elf looks upon the maid and his eyes are bright. For a long moment he is silent as if carefully judging the eyes of this maid. At last he speaks, "I greet you and indeed we have met in years brief even among mortal kindred. For am I right when I say that you are Istyarwen?" He bows fairly, as if the courtesies of the court of the Princes of the Eldalie were known to him by nature.

A presence unheard of for a long time might be felt once again, if one is so attuned to it. For near the front of the War Camp, still invisible to most within, stands the proud Feanarmo. He seems no more personable than ever: there is a dark frown upon his pale face and he seems to be in a brooding mood.

With a little reverence, the maiden nods. "Aye, My Lord. Lady Istyarwen Calendiliel is my name, also Diplomat of Prince Maedhros. Indeed years and years have passed since our last meeting". She smiles warmly. "May I ask you if you have arrived also in errand of Prince Maedhros? Perhaps you have news of Himring." The maiden turns and from afar waves to Lord Lothron. "Say me, my lord" she call out to him, "Have any messenger of Himring arrived last night?".

A guard of the Til-Faroth approaches to take Lothron's post on watch, and bows to his superior. Yet the knight bows in like kind, according the guard equal dignity; and yet, in the noble gesture, manages to simply make himself seem all the more noble. Once relieved, he walks to meet the diplomats of his folk. His movements are silent, yet the mail he always wears clinks as he walks, warning of his approach in an unassuming way. The light of morning seems almost to radiate from his bright armour, even as the darkness of the twilight seems to gather about Feanarmo.

"Nay," replies Herunomen. "For I am returning from the West-lands. Too long have I tarried in the halls of our kin who are craven to go to that war which surely we must wage. I had heard word from the riders of Angrod that my kin could be found hither. Thus I have come, on the threshhold of the lands of the Sons of Feanor, yet still not returned."

"From the West Lands, do you say, my lord? Those are dangerous lands now, I fear. Aye, those riders spoke in right. We came from Nargothrond and I hope soon we will return to Himring or, at least, to Himlad. Too much time far from home". Istyarwen sighs and turns her head toward Lothron, waiting for his arrival. 

Slowly, almost with hesitation, the proud Feanarmo begins to move towards the trio of his kin. His carriage is full of the immutable fire as ever, and his eyes mirror the words of Herunomen. His lips form a straight line from cheek to cheek, like a ramrod band of iron about a flaming brand. His boots leave deep prints in the ground, and his shadow flickers tall and long behind him and upon the pavilions that he passes by.

Lothron reaches Herunomen and Istyarwen and waits respectfully for the Senior Counsellor to speak. Then he bows to both diplomats. "Nay, by the jewels, milady. We had expected word from Himring by yestermorn, but no messenger has yet come. I hope some mishap has not occured." Despite his worried words, he continues to smile benignly.

"Regardless," says Herunomen. "I shall return to Maedhros and leave this place tommorrow. Is that where you are going?" He follows the gaze of the maid toward Lothron. He waits for a moment and says to Lothron, "It is unwise to mention the jewels of Feanor. It is too great a matter to name even in passing."

"Feanarmo! You are here!" Istyarwen laughs noticing the arrival of her fellow. "Really you surprise me every time I see you. I find you always in the most weird places... Or should I say the most conflictive places?" Her eyes blink for a moment. "Perhaps because we are searching the same?" She laughs again and ask him: "How goes my friend?." But soon she frowns listening at Lothron. "That I hope too, my lord. We have not news since.. well, we shall see what to do." 

Lothron bows politely to Herunomen, his smile vanished, as if accepting the rebuke. Yet he answers in a theoretical tone, "It is a great matter indeed. But by whom would you have me swear? By Manwe and Varda?" He chuckles and shakes his head. "No, by Finwe! See--by him I will swear, else by Feanor or the Holy Jewels. And wherefore not?"

Looking evenly at Lothron, Herunomen replies, "It is best not to swear. To many oaths, the world too small. Yet none the less swear by your life or honour if it must be. For what else can be asked of a warrior of the Eastern March, most valiant of the warriors of the Noldor?"

Feanarmo turns his gaze and emotionless features towards Istyarwen. "Hail Istyarwen," speaks the Noldo finally, each of the words spoken slowly and deliberately. It is almost as if he fights to contain some sort of violence. "You know the answer to your question before the words even escape your lips, diplomat. Feanarmo is unchanged since the beginning." Then his straight lips turn to a frown.

"My Lord Herunomen, sincerely, giving the last events happened.. Do not you can wait for our departure and travel with us?. We have a good army to escort us, as you can see" Istyarwen motions around the War Camp. "And sure Prince Maedhros will prefer to have beside him a belated but alive Counselour than one valiant but dead." The maiden bites her lips and looks on the ground, trying to avoid a laugh hearing the answer of Lothron. "Aye, Feanarmo, I know it" She replies to him. "I know that your mood is, like always, excellent, even though with an old friend" she ends with a grin touching her lips.

A glance is given to Feanarmo, yet no more.

Lothron nods, letting the matter of swearing drop, rather lending his voice to echo Istyarwen's plea. "My lord, we ourselves will be departing in but days. You know not what dangers await you on the eastern road! The messenger that was supposed to arrive yesterday still has not arrived--and what can that mean but peril in the wild! Will you not stay with us?"

Annoyance flashes in the eyes of Feanarmo at the light demeanour of Istyarwen, "Smile not, Istyarwen, for there is little to smile about." A glance is given to both Herunomen and Lothron before he returns the force of his gaze back to Istyarwen. "A war camp, you have named this? I see little proof that would warrant such a name, Istyarwen."

"My Lord, as you see, Lord Lothron and me are in agreement. And I am sure that also Prince Celegorm would agree, even though at this moment he has left the Camp and probably he will return this evening." Istyarwen looks at Herunomen worried, and with a nod she glances the departure of Feanarmo and the Counselour of Prince Maedhros. 

Lothron pulls a guard aside and asks him to see to Herunomen's needs, then returns to face Istyarwen. "Milord is fatigued--he needs food and rest. I will see to it he does not ride this day," he looks closely at her, "whether he will or no." He continues mumbling something softly about dangers on the roads and strength in numbers and "milord's will."

From among the tents comes a buzz of activity, as the camp awakes to yet another dawn, and another passing of the Sun on her course. A scout appears, wearing the colours of Lord Celegorm the Fair. He carries a flask of wine.

"Lord Lothron" Istyarwen begins to explain in soft voice. "Lord Herunomen is a powerful member of the Court and normally he only attends his÷ own wishes. After, or course, the wishes of the Princes. So, sometimes it is a bit, say difficult, to deal with him. Or at least that have I heard." The maiden remains silent looking at the nearly scout. "Is My Lord Celegorm already returned, lord? She inquires surprised to the soldier. 

Lothron nods slowly. "Aye, I know he is high in the court, yet when it comes to matters military, I am responsible for the camp. And truly, I can not let any of our folk, let alone such a high Counsellor, fall into what I suspect may be dangerous and enemy-held lands to the east. So I will do what I may, barring physical restraint." He frowns, pondering the reprecussions of his act, but also the reprecussions should mishap befall because of undue haste.

Macarwe raises his head to meet the question. "No, m'lady...though I do wait for his return, only but a few hours and with the grey of dawn have I come myself. I have only come from the trace to the north, and being about my post..."

Istyarwen rises an eyebrow, amusing. "Then, my lord, you wouldn't leave me to go alone in these lands? Am I your prisoner? Say me then, what would happen if I leave the camp on my own, one night." With a smile she looks at the scout. "And do you have find anything interesting, there? Is there orchs near our campament?".

Macarwe bows, "Forgive me my Lady, but that was not my cause this past night, my Lord had but another mission for me...maybe soon he will send me out for that purpose...I know not."

Lothron smiles. "My prisoner? No. In my care? Yes. As the highest ranking military officer in this camp, I am responsible to my superiors for the safety of all our folk. At this point, considering our strengths and weaknesses, I will do all in my power to keep us all together, barring physical restraint, as I said before. Were you to sneak off?" He shrugs. "I would have to send a small company after you to try to convince you to return, and if not, then to at least accompany you for your own safety. But surely you realize that any breakup of our force is a danger for us all. I mistrust Bauglir always." He pauses a moment, eyeing Macarwe, annoyed that he is dividing Istyarwen's attention perhaps. He asks, ever so meekly, "My good sir, I beg your pardon, but could you see if any attempt has been made at breakfast yet? I fear the lady will be faint if she does not eat, and I myself could use some nourishment." He smiles, slightly apologetically, wholly sincere.

"But I am sure" the black eyes of the elleth look directly at the eyes of the soldier, a nice smile in her lips "that you and your fellows comments the events in the tents, at the taverns, during a cold night near the hearth.. Certainly, you can know more about this land and the dangers than me with all my books and maps. Isn't it?" Istyarwen sighs and raises her hands helplessly. "And here nobody wants to speak with me about the dangers or the road, perhaps they think that I am one of those weak maidens of the court of Mitrhim." Istyarwen laughs softly at the words of Lothron. "I see, my lord, I see that I am good guarded. And really I like to sneak sometimes but on my own÷ even though an amusing idea comes now on my mind. And if I would want to have a secret or romantic meeting?" The eyes of the noldo blinks and adds: "And the lady won't be faint for that but I would be delighted eating some, aye, my lord."

Macarwe replies first to the officer, "Yes, m'Lord...I will find something if you wish, i may take from the stores of the Til-Faroth, or if you wish better ?" He turns aside and speaks in a low voice to the maiden, "I am sorry, but I spend little time but in the field, and have only lately come from my place at the Arossiach. Even then, we do not speak freely of our intelligence, but report it as is our place..."

Lothron shrugs and waves a hand to dismiss Macarwe. "Anything will do, provided it's not too poor. It is a warm morning, so it need not be hot." He turns back to Istyarwen and smiles. "Forgive me, I know you are no weak heart, but the fire of Feanor burns in you too. As for secret romantic meetings," he shrugs and his grin widens, "that is no business of mine...as far as I know."

"The stores of the Til-Faroth are enough good for me". Istyarwen turns to Macarwe and smiles him, she murmurs to the guard "Do not worry, please, I was only teasing, Sir". When Lothron ends her speech, the lady begins to laugh. "Fine, then, my lord. If one day I want to run away from my escort, I will announce first that I go to join a romantic party. You have me done a good idea, aye. But I thought for a moment that giving that my father was closer friend of you but he left us long ago" for a moment the lady pales" and my brother is far away from here, in the Siege, like my mother in Thargelion, you would want to care of an alone maiden". She ends mischievously.

Macarwe bows briskly, and moves off quickly on his errand.

Lothron raises his eyebrows and smiles, a relaxing, playful smile. "So we are family then. If you are to be under my care, I must keep a closer watch on you. Perhaps my little sister should move her tent nearer to mine." His grin widens as his statements get more and more ludicrous, but he does not retract them, waiting to see Istyarwen's response, judging she is not easily intimidated in the game of words.

"Family, my lord?" her voice sounds scared "Oh, my, and I believed that at last I could move in freedom, and now I am like a children again. Next time I won't say anything!" She drops her gaze to the ground, seriously her face, as a child caught stolen some cookies. "But do not you think, my lord, that Prince Maedhros would be surprised looking at his diplomat treated as a child?." She rises again her head and laughs. "And now I am really hungry."

Macarwe approaches quickly, a small red cloth bundle in his hands, he bows. "If I may interrupt m'Lord?"

Lothron regards Istyarwen thoughtfully. Truly, females are strange. He turns to Macarwe with a small sigh as if relieved. "Certainly, lad. You bring food! Excellent!

Istyarwen looks askance to the knight, as she was evaluating him. Finally she laughs for her self, amusing with the jest.

Macarwe nods, "If it will do..". He unwraps the bundle; a small round loaf and three dried apples are all it contains. He sets it near the maiden, and then unhooks a flask from his belt. "This holds aught but water, Lady, but it is clear and clean." He offers it...

Lothron looks askance at Istyarwen and is forced to smile again by her laugh. "Thank you, my friend," he says, though it is unclear whether he is addressing Macarwe or Istyarwen. He does help himself to an apple though, and breaks his fast eagerly.

"I thank you for your offer, Sir. Sure you have other better task that to find eat and drink for a couple of noldor who are spending the morning talking under the light of the son". Istyarwen drinks a bit first, and later takes one of the apples. "Do you laugh at me, lord Lothron?" The diplomat inquires.

Macarwe smiles slightly at the maiden, and then withdraws slightly, and looks to the Officer. "Do you require anything else my Lord?"

Lothron shakes his head, still munching on apple. He raises the apple core, facing north, and hurls it as far as he can. It disappears into the hills. After he finishes chewing, he says, "Thanks for the company, friends. I really must be getting back, though. The morning flies swiftly."

Macarwe moves off quickly, and heads off towards the tent with the green and gold pennant...

"You have also my leave, Sir, and my gratitude. I think that we have not been introduced÷ I am Lady Istyarwen Calendiliel, Diplomat of Prince Maedhros. If you need anything of me, I normally work at the Council Tent. If  I am not there.. well, my servants can easily search for me. And I fair that also I must return to my duties. Namarie ar Hantale!"

Lothron bows and turns on his heel, returning to his work.
