* Council Tent

You see a simple, but large tent. It is but one room, with peaked roof, strong beams of timber supporting. The floor is grass and dirt and there are no windows. From the roof beam hangs a pair of bright globe lanterns that cast ample light across the tent. In the center stands a great oaken table with many chairs around it. Maps and charts and messages litter the tabletop and picked at trays of food are near the walls.

Maedhros sits back in his chair at the table. Maps and charts and messages are pushed back as the Lord of Himring enjoys a late lunch. Wine, there is, and white wheaten bread and cheese, and a leg of lamb, cold. For a few brief minutes, maybe, he clears his mind of the weight and burden of leadership.

A page dressed in red and silver enters in the main tent and approaches to the heir of Feanor. Bowing deeply says to Maedhros: "Highness, Lady Istyarwen prays for an audience with you. What should I say her?. She seems a bit anxious, despite she has not say that her errand was important."

Maedhros looks up, his mouth still half-full of lamb that he is chewing. He appears a bit annoyed at having his repast disturbed. "Let her in," he says with a sigh. "But I will not interrupt my dining, so she will have to watch me eat," he says with a slight smile.

Nodding to the guards of the door, Istyarwen, dressed in her ceremonial robes, enters in the Council Tent, followed by the page. "Highness" she bows and waits for the departure of the page to continue. "Highness, forgive me for to trouble you now, when we are in the middle of this council and you are so occupied. Moreover I did not know that you were lunching." She bites her lips and continues a bit embarrassed "But. . .If I may be so dare to ask. . .Do you trust in the sons of Finarfin, or at least in Lord Finrod and Lord Orodreth, to face the enemy and go to the battle.?"

The guard steps aside, bowing deeply as the Lord of Thargelion sweeps aside the door. He looks neither at Maedhros nor at Istyarwen, for his eyes are focused inward; there is a look of dark brooding upon his face and he seems lost in it.

Maedhros takes a bite of bread and eyes Istyarwen thoughtfully for a moment before Caranthir comes in. "Caranthir!" he says. "Have you dined? Come, I have wine, and bread and cheese, and lamb." He points to a chair beside him. Then, remembering Istyarwen, he fills a glass of wine and offers it to her. "Wine? As for the Sons of Finarfin," he shrugs. "My brother loves them not, but as for me, Angrod and Aegnor methinks are trustworthy, and Finrod will suffice. Orodreth only is of little heart, but him we may keep guarding the Gap of Sirion."

The young diplomat bows to Caranthir and accepts the glass of wine, sipping a bit. "Far from my mind is the wish to be gossiper, My Prince, but since the Council ended I am wondering my self if I should speak with you and inform or not about. . ." She pauses for a moment, sips again and finally continue. "Well, that evening I was. . .disputing with Lady Araphel, my cousin, in the Chamber of the Council, and at first I did not notice that Lord Fingolfin and Lord Orodreth were also there, speaking. However I reached to listen a good portion of their speech, till Lord Fingolfin commands us to leave them alone."

Caranthir says naught. But his eyes do move towards Maedhros and his path turns aside to the table. As he finds his seat, his eyes lock upon Istyarwen. For a long moment, the weight of his gaze is upon her. In his seat, he sits straight as a rod; his face is set as a stone and his spinal cord nearly quivers with tension.

Maedhros continues his meal, and makes a motion for Istyarwen to continue.

"My Prince, I know enough the nargothrondrim to be not wonder about theirs. . . characters and ideas about the war. . .and the House of Feanor. Lord Orodreth. . .he opines that you are overconfident and so, are urging to Fingolfin to go to the war moved by your grudge. He does not trust in an attack while the armies are divided and opines that we could have a chance if we were all in agreement but he pointed at Elwe, despite he confess that he does not understand him. But mainly he has three doubts. . ." Istyarwen takes a deep breath, sips a bit more and relates: "At first, how to defeat a vala. Also he fears to disappoint to Fingolfin and Finrod if the lines of defense in the north are broken and he cannot halt the enemy in Minas Tirith. And at last. . .he opines that in Himring. . .that in Himring there is not hope, only bile and poisonous thoughts. Against the other kins, I must assume." She blushes and ends. "I could not hear more, My Lord. Do I make well telling you that, Highness?".

Maedhros says nothing but continues to eat in silence for a few minutes. Washing the food down with his wine, he drains his glass and raises his eyebrows to look at Istyarwen. "Aye, you have our thanks. Rest assured that Fingolfin is no coward or fool and will not heed him. You may go," he dismisses her.

"There is also another matter, My Prince." The lady continues "Lord Herunomen. He is long ago disappeared and, giving that it was a battle in the road between Dorthonion and Himring and he followed that road, as far as we know, I fear that he could be captured by the orchs. May I dare to ask why none punitive expedition was sent from Himring to rescue Lord Herunomen? He is your counselor, My Lord!".

Caranthir takes a helping of the arrayed food, remaining silent as he begins to eat; however, his eyes never leave the form of the Diplomat Istyarwen. Then, a wry smile crosses his pale features. "You have the gift of worry, Istyarwen. Forget for a moment the training of the diplomat and use instead thy heart; you will see that all the descendants of Finwe are of the same heart and constitution. While our motives may be different, all the Lords of the Noldor wish to rid the north of the Great Enemy."

Maedhros remains unaffected by Caranthir's words, as if they were perfectly natural coming from his harsh brother. Instead he responds to Istyarwen's words, and here his eyes narrow and his voice comes quietly: "It is not your place to rebuke ME. I gave you leave to go: therefore go. As for Herunomen, if he has proved a fool, then doubtless he is paying for his folly in the mines of Angband." For all his harsh words, a tone of bitter sorry can be faintly heard in his voice, but he ears at his bread viciously.

"To worry for my kin is also one of my duties, My Prince, you do not insult me with your sentence". Istyarwen replies raising her head. "I am glad for you if you think really that all the Lords wish to rid the Bauglir if the price to pay is a War." She turns to Maedhros, the disappointment and the sadness in her eyes and pale as a dead. 'Once, My Lord, you said that "A king is he that can hold his own, or else his title is vain'. If the pay for long years of service to the House of Feanor is the Mines of Angband, well, at least I am already noticed. Despite I could not believe that it would arrive a day that I would hear such words leaving the mouth of one of the Sons of Feanor." She bows the princes and goes to the door.

Caranthir's jaw clenches and his lips begin quivering with his rage. He shoots up out of his chair, almost spilling his wine and throwing his biscuits and lamb in all directions. But he will not rebuke the woman, for that falls entirely in the hands of Maedhros.

Yet he does motion for the guards to surround the door: the sons of Feanor are not yet done with Istyarwen.

Maedhros rises slowly to his feet, the anger clearly visible in his face now, though the rage is restrained. "Do you know to whom you speak? I am the son of Feanor, eldest in direct line from Finwe himself! I am not your father, I am not your teacher, I am your lord! Do you doubt me? Do you know all the hidden counsels of the Lord of Himring? And who are you, a counselor, and advisor? Therefore speak when I bid you speak, and silence when I bid you quit me and leave me to my meal!" His eyes flash as he awaits her answer.

Istyarwen turns in her heels, a touch of disdain now in her eyes. "And that I am doing, Highness, leave the tent and leaving you with your meal. I have the hope that others will be worried for Lord Herunomen and will try to help him". She bows again. "May I leave already?" The lady asks, motions the guards.

Maedhros sits back down with a sigh, resigned, saddened that he is forced to this pass. "You may go. You are discharged of your duties as a diplomat in my service," he says simply, and makes a motion to the guards to let her pass.

Istyarwen bows and leaves the tent.

