* Open Plains -- Ard-Galen

Oh the lonely land Ard-Galen must be. This green and fair plain where no Man or Elf lives. About it stretches for long leagues in a seemingly endless display of tall rushing grass. A chill wind blows from the north - surely the wind never seems to die here for no obstruction is present of any kind.

From the south there comes wandering over the plain two figures. Male and female, both in shredded clothing. The male is carrying the female. At length he pauses in the grass and looks west over the plains, shielding his eyes so that if he might, look afar with Elven sight.

Afar off to the west a cloud can be seen growing larger and larger, till plainly a small company of horsemen can be seen approaching.

Then in a strange desperation, the elf sets down the maid and then jumps out shouting in the Elven tongue, "Come! Riders! Come! I am in need of aid!"

The riders apparently see the distressed Elf, and approach ever nearer. At their head is a tall Elf clad in rich, bright mail. He presses his horse ever on, for he perceives that urgent aid is needed, and perhaps he has found what he is seeking in these lands...

Herunomen then peers on and he shouts in joy espying the banners of the Sons of Feanor, "Hail! Hail! It is Herunomen!"

The rider at the head is Maedhros himself, eldest Son of Feanor, who sees that the refugees are, indeed, his folk. He and his men come to a halt near to them, and Maedhros swiftly dismounts, as do some of his men. "Hail, and well met! This is a fortunate meeting! How fare ye?" he cries, as he approaches Herunomen swiftly.

"Hale," says Herunomen, "and so is the lady, though we are weary." He approaches swiftly and says in a soft voice, "M'lord. I must take counsel with you immediately, and away from all ears."

Maedhros eyes Herunomen sharply, looks him over, glances for a second at the maiden, then returns his eyes to look over his chief counsellor, standing yet an arm's length away. "Immediately? Is that wise? Mayhap first you have wounds that must be attended to." Nevertheless he holds up a hand to signal to his company to stay behind.

Herunomen shakes his head swiftly and his eyes are desperate, "No m'lord. It is too grave of a matter."

Maedhros pauses a second, then nods curtly. He lays his one hand on Herunomen's shoulder and leads him a bit apart, though he seems on his guard, his eyes alert. "Well, what is it?" he demands in a low voice.

"Orcs m'lord," says Herunmomen with a long gasp, "I was captured by the Enemy!"

Maedhros nods silently, waiting for his counsellor to reveal more. "So we guessed. My heart is glad to see you free, for we despaired of your rescue. I sent out scouts to track you, but the Orcs moved swiftly it seems. I hope you are not too damaged from the ordeal? And have you discovered anything of import?"

"Only my honour sir," says Herunomen. "The Enemy thinks I betrayed us. Sauron was there Lord. That evil one who can shift shape at will. He questioned me..." Then there is a stir as if Herunomen was recalling a nightmare, "And information I gave. What he wanted to hear, but not necessarily what is."

Maedhros says gravely, "This is a serious matter, for you know we can never again trust those who have endured the torture of the Enemy and yet have escaped alive..." he trails off, eyeing Herunomen sadly. "I only hope that you have escaped in time, if indeed you have escaped, and that you have truly not betrayed us. You understand."

"I know m'lord," replies Herunomen with a stoic tone, "and if you wish to slay me, or exile me, I will consider my duty done. This I told him: That the sons of Finwe were gathering for war to break the siege, and that Thingol has endeavoured to ally himself with the Sons of Finarfin. The main bulk of the assault will come from Dorthonion. So pleased was he with this that he sent me away, saying that he will send me word in a month for more information. For my part, I dissembled and said... oh forgive me lord... that the curse drives us to a mad and hopeless war and that I only wish to leave these lands and take the captured Noldor into my keeping."

Herunomen drops to his knees, "What else shall you know?"

Maedhros eyes Herunomen in silence for a minute, digesting the information, betraying none of his emotions in return. He speaks: "Tell me all that passed. I would know how in especial how you and the maiden escaped." He does not ask Herunomen to rise from his knees, but says, "You shall be fairly judged in the wisdom of your Lords, of that at least you may be certain. If you are faithful, you have naught to fear."

Then Herunomen speaks, and he speaks plainly, "I was returning to Himring from the Lands of the Sons of Finarfin when I was ambushed by a company of orcs. My horse reared due to a phantom devised by Sauron and I fell unconcsious. When I awoke, the Lady was by me. It was then that I thought my doom had come, so I made my best plan to meet my maker. Then He came. And his eyes were terrible, but then I remembered from afar the light of the Holy Trees in flower and had new strength. Therefore I dissembled myself and gave him information that seemed true, but was false, in this I asked for leave and to take the Lady as a gift for me from the Enemy. Thus I bought my freedom by lying to the liar. I am shamed that I have done it, but it needed to be done if I was to live. For by my honour I could not bear that the Lady be slain. For she was there when I awoke, captured too it would seem in an attempt to rescue me. Foolish maid, for if not, then I would be in peace right now in the halls of the West."

Herunomen says, "I told not the Lady what I did. Only that I had bought our freedom."

Maedhros nods slowly at Herunomen's words. "Then I will not lie to you: I like this not, but for now, we shall let judgement pass till a better time. Now let us ride with all due haste back to the tower." He begins to turn around to go, but reconsiders, and says briefly, "Are you in good enough condition?"

Herunomen rises and says, "I am well enough to ride. But Lord, in all things I shall abide by your wishes. For I would do the same if I were you, for truly, how can I be trusted?"

"Then let us ride," answers the Son of Feanor simply. He turns towards his horse and begins walking towards it without hesitation, exposing his back to he who was his closest adviser, as though fearing no treachery.

* * *

The shadows and the darkness leave slowly the dreams of Istyarwen. Cautiously and still groggy she tries to open her eyes but the light troubles her and remains for a while with the eyes closed. Again she tries to open her eyes, slowly, and the figure of a large room appears. She focuses her gaze and surprised, she recognises the Hall of Healers of Barad Eithel. "Am I still dreaming or is it only a sorcery of him?" She murmurs weakly, blinking.

A deep, calm voice assures her. "You are in the Hall of Healers, with your kin, in safety. Let your mind be at ease." Maedhros, eldest Son of Feanor, stands near the bed with Caranthir his brother, looking down upon her. He speaks softly, with no hint of accusation or disapproval, even tinged perhaps with some measure of admiration at this poor maiden's unflagging bravery and pride. "It is I, Maedhros, and Caranthir with me. You may tell us of what befell, but you need not till you are ready."

Caranthir stands silent beside Maedhros. His face is grave, though there is also no hint of disapproval or anger upon his features. His arms are crossed about his chest, and his gaze riveted to the elleth.

Nearby, in another bed, another figure rouses, hearing the deep voices of the Sons of Feanor. Elwen turns her head to watch and to listen, but makes no sound.

Suddenly Istyarwen sit up in her bed listening at the voices, but the ache of her head forces her to drop again with a short scream. He raises a hand to reach her head and remembers the beats and the happened. "Lord Herunomen" she says, dragging slowly the words, her voice still weak. "He was with me. Where is he? Is he alive? How did I arrive here?".

Maedhros exchanges glances with Caranthir, and clears his throat slightly. "Herunomen is safe, too," he says, reassuringly. He pauses, framing his words carefully. "You were brought here by good chance or Eru's will. It suffices to say that you are now safe," he repeats the refrain soothingly. "Will you tell us what you remember? What happened to you, and how you freed yourself, if you remember?"

At the mention of Herunomen, a flash of anger enters the dark eyes of Caranthir. But upon catching the glance of Maedhros, the flash is gone. Yet still, the muscles in his jaws clench tightly and the Lord of Thargelion remains silent.

Eyes widen and flicker at Istyarwen's words, yet still Elwen remains silent, her face paling as the Feanorians speak.

The maiden turns her head and looks around the room. When her gaze arrive to the bed of Elwen, she smiles faintly to her. "Then, you rest still here and we are now fellows, my lady". For a moment, the terror touches her eyes. "I thought in you when I was--" She does not end the sentence and turns to Maedhros. "Lord Herunomen dealt with him and he left us go in freedom." She shivers. "But he deceived the dark lord." She gulps. "Perhaps may I drink a glass of water?."

Maedhros looks around for a healer to serve their ward, and spotting one seems about to call out to him, but changes his mind and whispers to Caranthir, begging him to retrieve the water so they can remain undisturbed, and mayhap do some small honour to Istyarwen by serving her themselves. He then returns to his questioning. "Yes, we shall bring water at once," he assures her. "Now, do you remember what Herunomen said? What deal he struck with the foe?" he asks calmly and dispassionately.

Quickly Caranthir fetches the water, and brings it back to the bed. Without a word, he gently delivers the water to Istyarwen. Standing quickly, he once more resumes his position behind Maedhros. His attention is undivided upon Istyarwen.

Pity fills Elwen's eyes at Istyarwen's words to her and she nods. "All will be well, Istyarwen... You are strong, lady...' Her soft voice trails off at Maedhros' words, and she sinks back onto her pillows, falling silent, and watching once more.

Istyarwen murmurs a "thanks" and taking the glass drinks anxiously the water, as she fears that anymore she would have the chance to drink again. "Nay Elwen, I am not strong, I fear, only fortunate for once. You are stronger than me." The elleth answer now the question of Maedhros. "He wanted to know all about the defences and armies and weapons of our realms. . ." She stops, takes a breath and continues. "I do not know what Lord Herunomen said him exactly, only that he deceived him. . . I was dragged by a gaur far from them, at that time." She clears her throat and sits up a bit in the bed looking at the Sons of Feanor. "Is it anything wrong? Why do not you ask directly to Lord Herunomen? Sure he can answer better than me to your question, My Lord."

Maedhros shakes his head. "Thank you for your help, Istyarwen. I know you understand that in situations such as these, where one of our people has been captured by the Enemy and returned to us alive, we simply always wish to be certain of what happened, and extra caution is called for. Fear not: you are under no suspicion from us. Indeed, I--" he clears his throat. "I have been doing a lot of thinking. I forgive you for your rash words to me the other day, and I beg for you to forgive me as well, and to return to my service." He speaks with a slight tone of embarrasment, yet he knows that words of forgiveness and reconciliation are not wrong, not though others would counsel otherwise. Indeed, he smiles. "It seems all my counsellors are given to daring acts lately."

"Brave, yea," speaks Caranthir at last, his eyes soft as they look upon the prone form of Istyarwen. "Foolhardy, mayhap too. I cannot but applaud thy courage, Istyarwen. But I doubt the wisdom of such a venture forth. Rest well, serve well, live well. You have earned the respect of at least Curufinwe's fourth son." A ghost of a smile appears across his pale features.

Elwen smiles gently at Istyarwen's words, though she shakes her head. Yet she lies silently, not wishing to intrude.

"I do not fear to be under suspicion, My Lord. I know that I have not betrayed our kin, and this is enough for me. About Lord Herunomen" she draws her gaze and flushes "if he dealt with the foe was only to save me to be tortured and killed. He would never betray you. But I understand, indeed". She sighs and continues, embarrassed. "I thank your forgiveness and the same Lord Herunomen made me understand that you had the right and I was wrong and had not right to pray you explications of your decisions. So I beg your pardon now for my attitude."

She gulps and remains pensive for a while, and avoiding the gaze of Maedhros and Caranthir adds. "I know also that I should not to have left the camp and gone alone to search to Lord Herunomen, but I could not make another thing and for that I cannot regret my acts, because probably I would have the same another time". She drops in the bed again, weak and a bit worried.

Maedhros looks around and nods at his brother and his diplomat in satisfaction. "All is forgiven, then, and you shall return to my employ, but not until you have recovered from your ordeal. Sleep, then, and we shall leave you in the care of these good healers. We shall let your cousin Araphel visit you, too, if you desire it. No doubt with your strong spirit you shall soon recover." He smiles. "And now I have other business to attend to," he says, bowing slightly, and with that he turns to go, striding swiftly towards the courtyard, his mind already being filled with other matters.

