* Barad Eithel -- Outer Courtyard

High walls and lofty towers cast their long shadows down into the courtyard below. Troops often train here, learning the skills which will protect them against an implaccable foe always more numerous than they. At times, the whole of the fortress gathers here to hear the words of their commanders or of the High King himself...or to muster for battle.

Ringing the courtyard are the grainaries, armouries, smithies, stables, and other buildings which support and provide for the fortress in peace and in war.

The day is near spent. The setting Sun casts a long shadow for Maedhros the Tall, eldest of Feanor's House, as She watches him engaged in his evening sport, for he is engaged in sparring with one of his captains. His grey eyes flash as he disarms his opponent with the sword in his left hand with deadly accuracy. With a good-natured laugh, he sheathes his sword and claps the fellow on the soldier. Being done for the evening, he sits down for a few moments to recover some breath, remove the helm from his head, wipe the sweat from his brow and disentangle his ruddy red hair.

"Prince Maedhros - my lord? May I - speak with you, please, for a moment only?"

A shy voice breaks the settling quiet of the evening as an elleth steps cautiously towards the area where Feanor's eldest son sits, untangling his hair. She is clad in the pine-green cloak of a Feanorian healer. . .and as she pulls back her hood, the features of Araphel, cousin to Istyarwen, are revealed, and for once her features seem to sparkle with light. Despite this, there seems a slight nervousness in her gaze and motions as she folds her hands, awaiting his response.

A uncommonly good mood hangs on Maedhros, as always after his play. He smiles up from where he sits at the sweet Elvenmaid, who addresses him in so unbusinesslike and unassuming a manner, so he rises to his feet to greet her properly. "I am done with business for the day, but it would please me to hold gentle conversation here, if you wish to sit..." He motions to where he had been seated, a bench set at the perimeter of the Feanorian camp. "Please, tell me your name, for though all know the name of Maedhros," he smiles, "Maedhros knows not the names of all."

Blushing, Araphel nods and follows his lead. "And understandably, for how many of us fall under the command of the Prince Maedhros, while there is but one Maedhros - and even with all the sons of Feanor, 'tis far less than there are edhel and elleth among their troops! My name is Araphel. . .I was for some time in Thargelion with my family, under Prince Caranthir, but am from Himring before that. . . ."

Maedhros smiles. "I see the light of the West in your eyes, so you must have been in our following ever since the Darkening," he says in a calm voice, with no evidence of his cheerfulness being yet spoilt. "Charming to meet you, Araphel. Now come, speak with open heart: what is it you wished to say?"

Blushing slightly, Araphel nods. "Indeed. . .my parents and I followed you. . .and it is Himring I see more as home than ever anything else here has been. . . ." Swallowing nervously, she draws a deep breath, her expression glowing a bit. "I. . .have been most miserable since Himring, though, and fear I have caused a good bit of grievance in expressing it. . .for not being taught. . .or allowed to practise my art. . . . I trained as a healer. . . ." She pauses for a moment. "Prince Caranthir says to do whatever, so long as it is in service to the sons of Feanor. . .he was displeased because I. . .I did venture to attempt to be of service to the High King Fingolfin on two occasions. . .one of which you may recall. . .and I have found satisfaction these past days in aiding a lady of Mithrim. . . . But Prince Maglor was kind enough to hear my tale, and. . .he has offered me a place among his royal healers. . .to attend him. . .if you will permit it?" Nervously she watches Maedhros's expression. "Please, my lord Prince. . .it would be such an honour. . . ."

Quickly hiding an amused grin, Maedhros bears a serious expression to match Araphel's earnestness. He appears deep in thought, as if troubled by what he hears. He stands and paces back and forth twice, casting sharp glances at Araphel as if judging her character and motives. Then with a smile and a light laugh, he sits beside her again. "Caranthir had one thing right--service to Maglor is all one with service to me or any of my brothers. I would take that farther: service to Fingolfin is the same as service to me, for we all share our cause and furthermore are united in kinship. But if you can serve Maglor well, go, and with my blessing."

At this, Araphel's expression relaxes into a joyful glow. "Oh, my lord prince. . .thank you! Thank you so much - " Pausing abruptly, she adds, "I am concerned, though, for the lady Elwen. . .she begins to recover her health, but slowly, and fears that she will be useless. . .a fear I can well understand. Do you think that perhaps as I help in tending her during what free time I have, I might send word to Fingolfin to see if there is aught he would have her do? She was his counsellor, and - in nursing her, I have come to feel that this healing of the fea may be more important than anything else I can do for her - "

Maedhros's expression sobers. "I beg you, ask me not overmuch about healing. You must ask one who knows the art better than I, or if you are asking what dealings you may have with Fingolfin, you must seek Maglor, your lord." He falls silent for a minute, looking at the ground. Then he turns his eyes to look at Araphel, and slowly raises his right arm to show the empty stump where the hand had once been. "You know, I could have perished from the pain, the horror of the wound, and worst of all, I thought I was denied the ability to gain my rightful vengeance, to ever wield a sword again!" He lowers his eyes again. "The shadow of pain has never left my heart, but the fire of life is hot in me and I recovered, and now I wield my swordwith left hand more deadly than my right had been." He looks sidelong at Araphel. "But all healing such as I have had has come from within me, and I don't understand how it may come without." He shrugs. "I do not question your work, I am simply no expert in your profession."

Nodding, Araphel listens quietly. "And yet, my lord. . .had you never been given the opportunity to attempt the use of your left hand. . .you could not have found such healing." Gently she raises her hand to touch the stump of wrist, her touch light and tender. "Glad am I to see you so healed. . .if there is ever anything that I may do, you have but to say the word. . .there is much pain that people suffer needlessly." She smiles. "And I thank you, Prince Maedhros. . .indeed I shall consult with Maglor. . ." Still, her attention seems to remain briefly on his empty wrist, as if attempting to pour something of herself soothingly into the maimed area.

Maedhros listen's to the healer's words and watches her in silence for a fes moments, then suddenly jerks his arm away from her and stands. He faces outwards, back towards her, and says quietly, "Thank you. You may go now," as if it was he who asked to speak to Araphel and not the other way around. Pain is visible in his eyes, anger and regret restrained and shown to none. Perhaps more than anything the proud Son of Feanor can not stand being the object of pity.

Rising slowly, Araphel nods to his back, wincing. After a moment, she gathers her composure, drawing a deep breath. . .and pulls a small phial from the pocket of her cloak.

"Prince Maedhros. . .take this, please. It is a cordial that I make. . .it eases pain. . .in the days to come, you or yours may have need of it. Will you accept it in gratitude for your permission to me?"

Knowing it is an insult to refuse, Maedhros slowly turns around, his face once more bearing a calm expression that betrays nothing. He looks the healer in the eyes, and his hand meets hers briefly as he takes the phial. He looks it over briefly, then bows. "I will remember it," he says simply, then turns to find some peace in his tent.

