The Lord of Himring, Maedhros the Tall, suddenly appears, walking swiftly from the northeast. He is looking for someone--and now he has found them. His brother, Caranthir, and uncle, Fingolfin--the very two he had meant to keep separate. With a resigned sigh, he approaches Caranthir and lays his left hand upon his brother's arm with a mighty grip. A warning, nothing more. "Good evening, my lords," he says, with a slight smile, addressing both (and a nod of recognition to Araphel). "I trust the accomodations are suitable for everyone?"

"It is well that you are here," Caranthir says to his brother, turning his  head away from the High King of the Noldor, "for I fear my tongue was slipping  in the presence of the Usurper." His eyes burn with the light of the Silmarils.

With an indignant glare, Araphel bites her lip, looking more than a little  relieved at the appearance of Prince Maedhros. Nodding in return, she looks  about with a bit of confusion, seeming slightly nervous.

Maedhros's eyes narrow as he rebukes his brother lightly, in a low, intense voice: "Remember who the Foe is, brother, and trouble or allies no more, for our need is near us." His hand tightens painfully on Caranthir's arm for a brief second before he releases him. "Not a day out of my sight and already you let your tongue run unrestrained!" He turns to the High King and bows. "And I trust the accomodations were to your liking?" he asks in a louder, polite tone.

"The Foe is he who stands between us and the fulfillment of the Oath,  brother," replies Caranthir in a whisper to his brother, his eyes roving about  the garden. "But I will remember the foremost Foe first." And then, as the grip is released, he turns away and turns his gaze towards Araphel.

For long momentsb Fingolfin sits silent, silent as he had remained long ago in Tirion in the face of his brother's wrath. Yet his eyes flicker, wrathful, yet restrained. Nor does he at first speak to Maedhros, but turns instead to face  the statue of his father, deep in thought. "I hinder no oath, Caranthir son of Feanaro," he says softly, though there is ice in his tone. "Indeed I came asking union in an endeavor that may bring its fulfilment." He sighs, and then turns to Maedhros, and manages a wan smile. "The accomodations are quite more than suitable, kinsman, and I thank you." He shifts upon the bench, and his grip upon Araphel's hand tightens, andd for an instant pain as well flickers in his eyes. "Come now," he says at last, "let us put emnity behind us. It does not become a prince of the Noldor, to speak so in public."

Slowly steps come from the Serene Alley, approaching towards the little square and few moments later Istyarwen enters into the gardens, reading the scroll in her hands and smiling and tilting her head sometimes. The moonlight reflects the light in her light yellow tunic with golden and silver arabesques and embroideries, showing a luminous appearance. She pauses for a moment, closes her eyes and takes a deep breath, smelling the aroma of the fresh herbs and after. Then she continues and looking her cousin among a group of quendi, she call out, gladly: "Araphel, we have news from home! Just we have received a messenger of Thar- -" The elleth interrupts her speech and bows deeply to her Princes. "Forgive me, My Lords, I have not noticed that you are here, in my precipitation. I was searching for Lady Araphel. . ."

"I will," replies Caranthir with a nod of his head, "if only out of respect for the marble Finwe and the will of Maedhros. But do not seek to cozen with me, Nolofinwe, for I will have none of it." Then he nods his head to the diplomat Istyarwen, whom he recognizes.

Maedhros--clad today in the formal robes of court, shoes instead of boots, finery instead of clothes more beffiting a man of action--looks thoughtfully from Caranthir to Fingolfin, and nods at their words and seems about to speak when he is interrupted by Istyarwen's outburst. He glances over his shoulder at her, and clears his throat loudly, giving her a stern glance before turning to face Fingolfin. "Fingolfin," he says in almost a formal tone, "the time has come for us to speak. For I perceive you have not come only to exchange pleasantries with your cousins."

At once Araphel looks up, her grey eyes flashing. Speech seems to fail her, but only for a moment, and she pauses only to draw a deep breath before addressing Prince Maedhros. "My lord, I know it is not my place to interfere, and both of you may do whatever you wish, but - " She stops abruptly, seeming only slightly uncertain, but sufficiently so that for that moment, at least, she remains silently struggling with how to address the matter without seeming to point out any flaw in the High King's strength. "I - matters of this magnitude are more important by far, but - "

Istyarwen nods to her cousin, looks around at the group and a silent ask leaves her eyes. She moves near the healer and says her in low voice: "I see, Araphel. . . forgive me you too If I disturb you in this moment but I will think that you would be glad hearing news from home." Noticing the glance of Prince Maedhros, she nods and stepping back a bit remains silent, bowing Prince Caranthir.

"Were I come to exchange pleasantries, I have hardly succeeded," Fingolfin remarks, his brow quirking. Yet hardly has he the chance to frame a further reply to Maedhros when Araphel begins to speak. He withdraws his hand from hers and remains silent, though he nods at Maedhros, as if in answer to his question.

Maedhros glares at Araphel, annoyed by the delay. "Speak then. As you say, these matters are quite serious and demand our attention at once. If you needs must interrupt, then your words must be weighty indeed--Speak then!"

"Be careful, cousin. Perhaps. . . it would be better for us to leave this group, dear, I wonder my self. The Princes seem to want to deal and I fear we both could be an. . . impediment. And moreover I would want to know what has happened here, despite I can guess it, looking at Prince Caranthir and Fingolfin together." Istyarwen whispers to Araphel. "Or perhaps no. . . who knows."

Araphel casts an apologetic glance to her cousin before rising, keeping a slight attention to Fingolfin as she speaks. "My lord, I beg your pardon, but - I do not believe that you wish anyone to suffer unnecessarily. . . . I am but an apprentice, but I know what my parents said of Prince Maedhros. . . ." Here she stops, seeming to fall head over heels over her own words. . .but still she stands proudly, grey eyes dark with impatience and worry as her face flushes, displaying more of the embarrassment than she herself seems to feel. . . .

"She but shows her healer's training, kinsman," answers Fingolfin, the words rolling soft, but firm from his tongue. He rises slowly, nodding to the lady, and rests a hand upon he shoulder. "I was injured some days ago, and it still troubles me somewhat. I ask you not to fault her for her remarks...." He turns his eyes to Maedhros, searching the other's gaze with his own.

"Injured, Nolofinwe?" says Caranthir with a scoff, his eyes narrowing at the words of Fingolfin, "Perhaps you should leave the fighting to those more suited to it: the sons of Feanor."

Maedhros lays his hand on Caranthir's arm once again, applying no pressure, for the memory should be enough to warn Caranthir. However, the scowl on Maedhros's face matches his brother's, and after the brothers exchange quick glances, the tall elder brother addresses Fingolfin: "My lord, if the young lady will speak, please, let her do so. We die to know what she will say, when she is done with her bumbling and apologies." He fixes Araphel with a cold stare. Waiting.

Istyarwen clears her throat. "Highness" she begins to explain to Prince Caranthir "It was a battle in Lothlann not long ago and many of our knights, and also Lord Fingolfin, were injured. To be one of our kin did not save them to the death. Probably at this moment many wives, daughters or sister are crying, from Himring to Estolad, I fear."

This is too much for Araphel, even from the princes themselves. . .and after a grateful look toward Fingolfin, she turns a furiously cold pair of grey eyes on both Maedhros and Caranthir. "My experience - my little, yes, but also my mother's, which was quite long - has it that those injured are usually those with the most courage. . .those who do not fear the heart of the battle."

A long moment passes, during which Araphel's colour heightens a bit further, before she adds, "My parents went to the Halls of Mandos for these realms. . .so I do not take the matter lightly. But even at that, I was not taught to let anyone suffer when I could do something to ease them, or assist a higher healer in doing so. . .and as such, I cannot keep silent when I see such a matter. Were I a healer elsewhere, and one of *you* hurting, I would do the same for you - " Glaring, she bites her lip as she finishes, blinking rapidly.

Caranthir gifts Istyarwen with a patronizing smile, but his stare is flinty, "I know of this battle, diplomat. Remember to whom you speak. I am a son of Feanor, not a youth just off his mother's breast." Then he turns his head towards Fingolfin, and eyes his father's brother for a brief moment. Turning back towards Istyarwen and Araphel, "There have been many injuries since Aman was left behind and there will be many yet still. And the Dark Enemy will pause for none of these, and for that we cannot afford to."

Fingolfin's eyes flicker from Araphel to Maedhros, and he frowns slightly art her words. "I have bourne it this long," he says softly, though his words are clear to be heard, "I do not think a few more hours will cause more harm." his tone is firm now, and yet he smiles briefly at the healer, before turning back to Maedhros. "I have come, Heru Maedhros, on an errand urgent and yet simple.... I ask that you muster your forces and prepare for battle. I ask that you and such of your kin that will ride with you join me within the Barad Eithel--" He stops short at Caranthir's gaze and his words and his eyes flash. "Wilt thou not restrain him, Maedhros?"

Istyarwen glances upon Araphel in surprise but soon she reacts and slips her arm in Araphel's arm, as she was offering her a support. But she turns to Caranthir: "Then, My Prince, you can easily understand that many of us, as you, have lost our family, friends or beloved in this wars. And if for us is not a matter of joy to stay crying for them, also is not for the other kins. They have suffered pains and tears, too".

At first Araphel seems close to opening her mouth to speak again, but for once she simply closes it, blinking back defiant tears. Accepting Istyarwen's arm only reluctantly, she glares a moment longer before her eyes return to Fingolfin, still anxious in their bright gaze. Without turning them, she whispers to her cousin. "Is that - then - the news from home? More?"

Maedhros clenches his jaw. He is better than some of his brothers at restraining his anger--now he is merely frustrated. Frustrated at the host of yammering voices coming from all directions, ceaselessly. Since when had his citadel become a circus? What has become of the respectful silence that usually accompanied the two mightiest lords of the High Elves of the West? Shutting out the noise, his eyes focus on Fingolfin's mouth, hearing the important words, the words he had come hither to heed: muster your forces. Prepare for battle. When Maedhros at last speaks in a low, intense voice, all others hush to hear his words: "I shall not fail you, my lord. The Feanorians will ride to battle!"

Caranthir crosses his arms about his chest and looks downwards at Istyarwen. "I am here but for the Noldor. I care not for the other kin. And yet you make me doubt your lineage as you bleat like a Teleri." He says nothing to his brother's words. But there is a glower upon his face.

"And you, Prince Caranthir, make me doubt YOURS."

The words ring from Araphel's lips, cutting through the otherwise quiet air, as she begins to cry. "The others may not be as we are, but - are they not worthy of some compassion? They exist, is that not enough? I have been in your lands for long enough that I should have known this, but - " Breaking off with a sob, she shakes her head. "Forgive me, Istyarwen. . .I. . ." She shakes her head, dropping her gaze as she continues to cry softly.

Fingolfin's eyes brighten at Maedhros' words, kindled to flame by the intensity of the other. A slow smile, proud and fiercs, touches his mouth, and he nods to the eldest son of Feanor. "I ride in three days' time," he says, his words stronger now, heedless of Caranthir, heedless of his own weariness. "At the Barad Eithel we shall take counsel, and then... to battle. We will drive the hosts of Angband before us like leaves upon the wind!"

"You are upset, healer. I will make no note of your words spoken in haste." Caranthir speaks calmly to Araphel, each word said succintly. Yet there is wrath in his tone, and his eyes burn unquenchable.

Then, tightly, to Maedhros he speaks: "I will return to my chambers, brother. I would speak to you when you have regained your senses." Then he turns and makes as to leave the park behind him.

"Oh, no. . . no dear!" Istyarwen whispers back to Araphel. "At home all fares fine. My mother has received also a letter of Angamaite and - -" Suddenly the lady interrupts her whisper and turns choleric towards Caranthir. Pale and clenching strongly her fists, she tries to restrains herself. "Aye, Highness. Also we care for our kin, firstly. And if you doubt about my lineage, My Lord, confusing a noldo with a teler, well. . . then at least a teler died defending King Feanor when he died, and also one of your captains lives in the Siege long ago defending your realms. I would dare to say that you need rest, if you cannot see the difference between your own kin and others." She ends bowing to the Lord of Thargelion.

"If you wish to be a Noldor, then you must first act as one," replies Caranthir to Istyarwen, his voice light. "I care only for my kin, diplomat. The others are of no consequence." His expression does not match his tone of voice, for it is harder even than the mighty Citadel.

"Too long we have suffered the foul winds from the north," Maedhros replies to Fingolfin, now in a strong voice. "At last the Dark Enemy of the World shall pay for his foul crimes and wrongdoings!" His voice is raised to a shout. "Vengeance!" he cries. "An end to his tyrrany!" he says, clear and loud. "A beginning of peace," he says, in a hushed voice once more. He lowers his eyes from the heights to behold those around him, and he smiles. "I sometimes think, my friends, my kin, that if our little family squabbles were all we had to deal with, the world would be a happy place indeed." Focusing once more on Fingolfin, his tone returns to a little of its former formality. "Fingolfin--I shall begin to muster my knights and my army at once. I shall send messengers to all my brothers that they too may prepare. As for myself, I shall come with you, with all speed, to Eithel Sirion. Caranthir," he looks over his shoulder, his voice stern as he beholds the prince, "my brother, shall come with me, for this concerns him, too."

"Act as you, My Lord, insulting and injuring the soul of your own kin? Is that 
an action of a noble and valiant noldo? Or the react of a coward servant of 
Ulmo?" The sentence of Istyarwen crosses and breaks the silence among the 
maidens and Caranthir, while she hugs strongly her cousin.

"Act as you, My Lord, insulting and injuring the soul of your own kin? Is that 
an action of a noble and valiant noldo? Or the react of a coward servant of 
Ulmo?" The sentence of Istyarwen crosses and breaks the silence among the 
maidens and Caranthir, while she hugs strongly her cousin.

"Caranthir," replies the Lord of Thargelion equally as stern, "will accompany 
his brother to Eithel Sirion." He stops abruptly, as though he wishes to say 
more. His jaw works loud and long but in the end he remains silent. Then he 
resumes his march away from the King of Mithrim and the Prince of Himring.






