Daytime (About Noon) on Sunday of Spring - May 30, 459


Barzyn:
The Khazad before you is of average height and stocky build. He wears brown
leather breaches which cover most of his shoes down at his feet. His tunic is
red and silver, representing the Houses Baraz and Zinbar respectively. On the
left breast of his tunic is the dwarven emblem reserved for the personal use by
the Lord of House Alameg. 
 His features are young, with a long shaggy brown beard and hair. Yet his eyes
show wisdom beyond his years, and his hands show the scars of battle and years
of hard work. The only piece of jewelry he wears is around his neck, it is a
small silver ring on a golden chain.

Umahal:
Umahal is an old Dwarf, short and shifty but with an air of some assumed
nobility and, certainly, some pride. A grey beard forks from his chin onto his
chest, but no lower, for this is no Longbeard, but a Firebeard of Nogrod. He
has sharp black eyes and bushy grey eyebrows set in his weatherbeaten face.
His hands, too, are calloused and worn.

Umahal wears a black tunic, decorated with a great silver seal: the coat of
arms of the King of the Hollowbold, which this vassal displays proudly. But
over all of this he wears an old grey cloak which covers his arms and back but
parts in the front like an overcoat, and the grey hood attached is thrown over
his head. You can see baggy woolen black pants upon his legs, and black boots
upon his feet.

Dzhudzhe:
One word would be enough to describe this little critter - short, even for a
khazad. However, it seems what was taken from him in height has been added in
width. The large tummy, together with the chubby cheeks and fat lips is all it
takes to make this dwarf get mistaken with a walking barrel. The leather cap
and short reddish beard make some attempt to bring a general idea of khazadness
to the little being, yet with limited success. Apparently the leather trousers
are also doomed to failure. It is only thanks to the large dark eyes and the
small reddish nose that in a way identify this fellow as a member of the
dwarven race. 
As for the remaining picture - a pair of leather boots, a touch woolen shirt
and a ragged leather vest are all there is. Oh, and naturally a leather belt
which is like the metal ring of a barrel... which is slightly tight.

Naugladur:
Your eyes fall upon a khazad with dark red hair and beard. He is well trimmed,
his beard falling to about belt height. Bushy eyebrows of the same color shade
eyes of gleaming brown. It is in these eyes that a glow seems to emit; a glow
of power and fierceness; nobility and calm calculated thoughts. Standing at his
full height he seems to have an air of nobility. His face and body seems to be
etched straight from the stone of the land. Each and every feature well defined
and sturdy. He is clad in a tunic of silver, with black coat over it. The coat
is lined in red embroidery. Brown breeches are tucked into thick black boots. A
chain of fine silver is hung about his neck but drops into the top of his
tunic, hiding whatever emblem or medallion that hangs from it's length.


Dolmed's Horn Inn
Brightly lit and cheerful, the inn is comfortable rather than beautiful. Heavy
wooden tables are set about the room, and a tapestry on one wall adds colour. A
heavy door, left ajar, leads to a back room for private parties.

Business is slow in the inn today. Rogin and the other serfs employed at the
Dolmed's Head lounge lazily on stools and chairs looking as comfortable and
relaxed as the few patrons. The door opens, and in walks Umahal, Lord Narag
himself! As one, his serfs who run his Inn snap to their feet and bow low until
dismissed by a simple gesture from the stern Thane. Umahal walks behind the bar
and shares a few words with Rogin, the bartender.

In the inn, there are already quite a few dwarves, including the lately quite
popular Dzhudzhe, who having finish his midday meal - porridge as usual, yet in
unusual quantities, is polishing his shield. Looking at him it is a veritable
wonder that the shield itself still exists. The dwarf, however, doesn't seem to
care obsessed by his.. by his lord's property.

Swinging the door open, and leaving quite a commotion outside of the inn, Lord
Alameg strolls into the tavern for his usual drink. Looking about at the empty
establishment, the Lord raises an eyebrow at the Lord Narag and then proceeds
to move over and sit down next his Serf Dzhudzhe. Waving an arm to the
barkeeper for an ale, he smiles awkwardly and says "Good day my friend? And
found any more interesting items lieing around the mines?" Smiling again, he
takes his ale and has a drink.

Again the door to the Inn/tavern opens. From outside a grumbling emits and
Naugladur moves into the tavern cursing, "I'll go where I well!" Then another
follows him, clad in the garb of the royal guard. Korban moves after the King
insisting on following, "You are not a quendi diplomat! Do not follow my every
move." Unable to move further forward with Korban in front of him, Naugladur
turns to the side and moves toward Lord Alameg tossing a glance over toward the
Lord Narag.

Whatever might have been said to Dzhudzhe has as much chance of entering his
head as an arrow piercing a mithril vest. The shield has all his attention now.
Little less than a tap on the shoulder would make him react.. actually any way
that could bring him to the ground, which having in mind his weirght and body
structure isn't too much.

As Dzhudzhe doesn't answer, Barzyn frowns and growls slightly, and then takes a
long pull at his drink. Wiping the foam of his moustache, his eyes fall on the
shield and he understands the Khazads silence. Suddenly though, he stands and
bows as the King enters, "Good day sire, please join us..." Making room for his
Liege, Barzyn waves quickly to the barkeeper for a drink.

Naugladur nods his head toward Barzyn, "Indeed I will, Lord Alameg." Sneaking
past Korban he motions toward another table, away from the Lord Alameg and his
serf. It is there that the guard moves and sits. Glancing around, Naugladur
sits across from the Lord, yet at the same time away from the serf. Looking at
the shield, the King raises an eyebrow, "What smith of ours crafted such a
shield? I have see naught like it in our halls."

Some murmers and a few pokes attempt to indicate to the absentminded dwarf
(Dzhudzhe that his lord, as wella s the king himself, are in the inn, yet the
only they manage to do is infutiate him. Ton greatly, just enough for him to
grumble to those trying to help him. "Ye be patient!" he says loudly. "There
will be time soon enough for ye to be seeing the shield!"

Glaring at his Serf, Barzyn looks apologetically at the king "Please forgive
him my Lord, he is...slightly distracted today..." Sighing he takes a long
drink and, looking at some of the other Khazad, raises his eyes to the ceiling
and shakes his head. "..That shield, aye, Dzhudzhe here found it in the
mines...though i think i'll let him explain himself..." Turning to the miner,
Lord Alameg starts to shake him roughly and clips him round the ear in an
attempt to bring him out of his trance.

Naugladur looks at the serf and raises an eyebrow, "I would have that serf
working the mines for lack of respect!" The loud statement mad eobviously to
gain the serf's attention, "Perhaps the deep mines would do him well. That
shield would be mine as well, to store with the other fine pieces of armour

Umahal looks out over the inn, notes the old-looking shield and all the
commotion surrounding it. He snorts, indicating he is unimpressed, says a few
more stern words to Rogin, and steps quickly out of the inn.

When the threat about the mines is mentioned Dzhudzhe doesn't react at all, yet
upon hearing he might loose the shield his mind makes him turn instantly
without the dwarf even knowing. "What ye be.." he stopes. face turns pale as
chalk as he sees who he has begun to yell at. "Err.. it is an honour to.. bow
before ye, majesty," he bows slightly, yet not too much so as not to fall over.

Smiling weakly, Lord Alameg nudges Dzhudzhe in the ribs and nods at him to
answer the questions. Turning to the king though, Barzyn says cautiously "Aye
m'Lord...that may be true, but is he not my Serf? So by right anything he finds
should belong to me..." Taking a drink so as to hide his face for a moment,
Barzyn then lowers his pitcher and waits for any forthcoming answer.

Naugladur snorts, "Are you not a Lord of the Baraz? And is not Baraz loyal to
their Lord, the House Zirak? As Narag is loyal to myself? Do I no longer
control the lords of Baraz?" A smile crosses his face, and he nods "I will not
break of faction over an old shield that some elf probably crafted and traded
for some of our own ore." He looks at the serf and his eyes flash, "Watch your
tongue, or perhaps I shall shave your beard and let all others see how pale
your flesh truly is."

Sewat covers the serf's face and begins to drop onto the floor. Afraid to look
up the dwarf takes a deep breath. "Maybe there be more than one, lord..
majesty.. lord.." he says confused whom to address first. "If more sheilds are
to be found.." he pauses.

Barzyn looks slightly unconfortable as Naugladur starts to shout. Taking a
drink to calm himself down, he looks to Dzhudzhe and nods slowly "Aye, maybe
there is..." Turning to the king, he says "M'Lord, maybe it would not be such a
bad idea to tell some miners to have a search nearby to where this one was
found..if Dzhudzhe here could show them, who knows what could be uncovered..."
Taking a drink, Lord Alameg waits with bated breath for his Lords response.

Naugladur shrugs, "If there is ore to mine, then so be it. I will not call away
miners from their jobs to seek something that may not be there. If another is
found, the so be it. Perhaps you should send some other serfs, or gather the
other lords and form serfs to send. My own, the guard would curse me for such a
job, and I will not risk my own men not doing their best to watch my own self."
He looks again at the shield with curious, almost wanting eyes.

