Daytime (About 11AM) on Sunday of Spring - May 9, 459

Market Place

This is an enormous cavern. It still has its natural shape, but the walls, floor, and ceiling have been made smooth. Along the walls, permanent stalls have been carved out, where things that need more protection are sold. Rows of wooden stalls cover the floor of the cavern, selling almost everything imaginable. Nearest the door are the food stalls.

Breg strolls aimlessly through the market place, pausing at stalls when something catches his eye. Looking about, he scans the crowd looking for familiar faces as he chews on a strip of dried meat.

Olandu walks about enjoying the feel of being home. she likes the smells and tastes and feels and she likes seeing dwarves. She likes th fact their are more Khazad than elfs. She just likes being home and a small smiles seems forever planted on her lips.

Unfortunately, not everyone seems to be in a good mood. Dzhudzhe, especailly has had noting but problems this day. Ad one oculd judge by the lookd of him thinks could hardly get worse... Walking through the marketplace the unfortunate dwarf crashes literally into a wooden stall and falls on the ground. It seems like everything could get worse.

Dothan walks out of the inn, and laughter fills the marketplace from within it.
Dothan has arrived.
Dothan walks out of the inn and looks around.

Breg continues on his walk and notices Olandu walking in his direction. Waving to his travelling companion he heads towards her when he hears a crash beside him and almost trips over a fallen dwarf. Leaning down he offers his kinsmen a hand "Need some help?"

Dothan looks at Breg and smiles at his kins clumsiness.

Beign quite dizzy the fallen has trouble thinking of a reply. Actually he has trouble thinking at all. Thankfully this also breangs some calm to his being. yet the moment he regains some sort of consciousness the various problems fill his mind. "Help? Ah Ya, I be needing that! I be needing much of it.." he makes an attempt to stand up.

Dothan looks concerned "Do you need some help"?

Breg helps the fallen dwarf to his feet. "You seem distracted my friend. Keep your eyes ahead and you should be able to avoid the rest of those stalls." He grins. "My name is Breg. Yours?"

Getting to his wobbly feet.. and that is difficult having in mind the dwarf's form and wight, Dzhudzhe looks about rubbind his nose. "Well.. anyone of you know where a relatively good smith.. and quite strong felloe be getting some work.. and this time that pays? Else I will have to go back to mining.." he sighs, apparently that is something he wishes to escpe from. "I? I be being Dzhudzhe.."

Breg strokes the forks of his beard in thought. "Hmmmmmm. Can't say that I know of anyone looking for work. You might want to try the weapons shop or armour shop." His brows furrow for a moment and he looks at Dzhudzhe "Who's your lord?"

"Nah, I be thinking that before yet... Not that I don't be liking weapons. Let I tell ya.. I shall becomeof the Silver clan... the great.." unfortunately reality as well as Breg's other question being interrupt the khazad's dreams. "My lord be lord Barzyn of Baraz."

Breg nods. "Barzyn is a good and honourable Khazad. If you need help he would be the one to ask. Have you seen him lately? I've got some gems I think he'd like to have a look at but I haven't seen him since we returned to Nogrod."

"Err... that being.." the dwarf begins looking about. "Actually.. I be not a too importatn serf.. helped a bit in the mines.. a few other things... Yet he still be being my lord," he adds firmly at the end.

Breg nods solemnly "Don't like the mines eh? Believe me I can understand that." A dark expression comes over his face for a moment, then he shakes his head and continues "You've got to apprentice yourself to someone. Why is it you don't like weapons anyway?"

"Err.. don't like weapons?" the dwarf asks confused rubbing his knows with his sleeve. "I be loving weapons. I told ye, didn't I? I be wanting to become of the Royal Army... I even have begun learning from one who is.." no name is mentioned. Probably because 'learning' actually means 'serving in hope of learning'.

"Sorry my friend I must have misunderstood you." Breg looks at Dzhudzhe thoughtfully. "So you don't really want to be a smith as much as a soldier. Am I right?"

"Ahh, that be it exactly.. alas.." he pauses a grumby expression on his face. "There be many who be telling I be overfat. That be muscle I be telling them, yet they be jesting 'nah, that be blubber," he sighs remembering these painful moments.

Breg says, "The Muzuramahal is coming soon. Perhaps you will be able to prove your strength and skill in the contests." He grins broadly "Of course you and your clan will be up against mine, so there's no guarantees there" he laughs and slaps Dzhudzhe on the shoulder.

The last seems to be a bad move. Just a slight slap is all it takes to bring the dwarf back on the ground again. Only this time when he stand sup he does not turn to Breg. Rather he grumbles about the market place and soon departs.. creating a trail of laughter behind him.

Breg watches as the other dwarf heads off through the crowd. Waving he calls out to Dzhudzhe "Good bye Dzhudzhe, I hope you have better luck!" He grins and slowly shakes his head wondering what could be bothering the other dwarf. With a shrug he continues his stroll through the marketplace chewing on a dried strip of meat.
