Daytime (About 4PM) on Sterday of Spring - May 8, 459

Narag Way

Upon entering this cave, one can but admire the craftmanship that wrought these
halls, the smooth walls and the wondrous pillars. In the ceiling the stalactites
have been left as they once were, giving this place a more down to earth look.
From this cave leads several smaller arch, all surrounding a huge arch in the
opposite wall. This great arch seems to be leading into an ever greater hall,
and guards are busying themselves near the opening, watching it carefully. This
place has subtlety and class.

Umahal is an old Dwarf, short and shifty but with an air of some assumed
nobility and, certainly, some pride. A grey beard forks from his chin onto his
chest, but no lower, for this is no Longbeard, but a Firebeard of Nogrod. He
has sharp black eyes and bushy grey eyebrows set in his weatherbeaten face.
His hands, too, are calloused and worn.

Umahal wears a black tunic, decorated with a great silver seal: the coat of arms
of the King of the Hollowbold, which this vassal displays proudly. But over
all of this he wears an old grey cloak which covers his arms and back but
parts in the front like an overcoat, and the grey hood attached is thrown over
his head. You can see baggy woolen black pants upon his legs, and black boots
upon his feet.

Kang has arrived.

The dwarf the stands before you is a middle aged dwarf and average height. He is
119 years old and stands 4 feet 10 inches tall. On his body he wears a long red
cloak that comes down to his feet, with a big red hood. Around his waist is a
solid gold belt with a big belt buckle. His feet are covered with brown boots,
and around his neck is a gold medallion with a snake rapped around a dagger.On
his belt is a sheath that holds his mighty sword. Also around his belt is a
brown bag that he holds his money in. He is a stout build dwarf that is very
strong.

Umahal steps out of Narag Hall and strolls at a leisurely pace towards the Main
Hall. He carries a walking stick in one hand. The other hand strokes his beard
as he hums a strange, discordant tune to himself.

Making his way into the Narag Hall, from the Main Hall, Kang makes his way down
towards the Great Arch. One hand on the hilt of his sword, the other by his
side. He nods his head slightly, to some passers by. As he approches Umahal, he
stops and bows, "Good day, cousin. How fare ye this day?" He says with a smile
on his face.

Umahal stops in his tracks, and the humming ceases. He glances sidelong at Kang
for a second, then bows his head and mutters to himself. He then looks up again
and peers at Kang intently. "They used to call Lord Azan "m'lord." But never me.
Just "cousin" am I, eh?" He chuckles to himself and shakes his head, hiding his
anger. "What can I do for ye, lad?"

Kang smirks at the elder dwarfs comment, "Aye, very well then, Lord Azan it
is.." He chuckles to himself and continues, "I was just wondering if ye had
anything ye needed done.." He pauses as he scratches his beard. "Or maybe,
something that will get me out of these halls and outside?" He says with a smile
apon his face.

Umahal rolls his eyes. "By Mahal's Beard!" he roars. "I am Lord Narag!" he says
with passion, his dark eyes darting hither and thither. He clears his throat,
wagging a finger at Kang. "And don't ye forget it! Now. What's all this about
goin' outside? The outside has little to offer that the caverns of the Dwarfhome
has not."

As Umahal's words scare Kang at first, he jumps back suddenly, then shaking his
head he smirks. "Easy there cousin, a dwarf has to have a little fun now and
then.." His voice trails off as he peers over his shoulders, making sure no one
is listening. "Well cousin, I never said it had more to offer.. But there is a
whole world out there: unknown, unscouted, untouched."

Umahal snorts. "Bah! I've seen it all. The hot lands of the south where lies the
land of Dor-Winion. The forests of Beleriand. Even the great Mountains of Mist.
The outside world we may profit from; I've spent years travelling to build up my
trade empire..." he chuckles. "But when it comes down to it," he bangs his cane
on the stone floor, "this is the only home for me."

Kang chuckles at the old dwarfs sternness, "Now cousin, what you have seen would
be much..But what about the rest of us? What about the little khazad's who want
to be journymen..To scout the world out?" He shakes his head before countinuing,
"I must admit, it is great to be able to sit within the tavern and drink
everything away, but we must go out, and discover things before they discover
us."

Umahal scratches his beard in puzzlement. "What do ye mean? We should have some
sort of intelligence agency to report on the goings-on in the world?"
Kang rubs his beard, "If that is what you'd like to call.." He lets out a long
and loud sigh before continuing. "Something like that, such as if orcs are
invading our precious Nogrod, how will we know they are coming? Until it's to
late...We will be un-prepared and will fall.."

Umahal chuckles at the joke, but nods. "Aye, I see yer point. Send some o' me
lads out and...keep 'em out there finding information for me, the goings-on of
the world, eh? The movements of armies, the prices at other markets. To use," he
grins cunningly, "stealth and secrecy." He stops to think for another moment.

Kang nods and smiles, "Aye, what ye said." He chuckles to himself as he shakes
his head, "Anyway, 'stealth and secrecy' Aye, i like the sound of that..a secret
organization, one that scans the lands before any decisions are done, they will
be an elite force, of the best,toughest,fastest, and most of all stealthest.."

Umahal nods thoughtfully. "Aye. Well 'twill require some thought. Must not be
hasty about this. Furthermore, as ye say, only the best should be involved..."
He seems to look at Kang for the first time, taking in his appearance, his
movements.. then he shakes his head. He raises an eyebrow, waiting, still sizing
him up.

Kang nods as the elder dwarf speaks, "Aye, Aye..no haste, just think about
it..Run it threw the others, see what they think." He smirks as he watches the
elder, "Yes? Can i help you with something?" He says as he scratches his beard.
Umahal shakes his head again, and mutters, "We'll see, lad. We'll see. G'day to
ye!" With that he smiles and walks off towards the Main Hall, not one backward
glance.

Kang nods and continues down the hall, "Night, Lord.." his voice trails off as
he whistles to hiself down the hall.
