Daytime (About 9AM) on Highday of Spring - May 21, 459

Olandu:
This female is about 4 feet 7 inches. she is slender for a dwarf and yet strong. She has dark brown eyes and short reddish brown hair that is pulled back behind a leather band. Her beard is soft and set with small beads. Her arms are smooth and muscular and her hands are delicate for a dwarf. Her fingers are long and have amazing dexterity. There are callouses and scars upon her hands giving them character.The nails short and well cared for. She wears a long blue shift of soft weave. It has a scoop neck and no sleeves. It is slit to the hips and under she wears darker blue leggings. She looks actually quite feminine. Her toes wiggle in pleasure upon the ground. about her second toe on the left foot is a silver ring

Dagnor:
A young Khazad in relative terms, Dagnor's face and hands are smeared black from many a hard days work polishing metal. A jewler by trade, Dagnor hopes that his work will, one day, be recognized by his King and fellow Khazad.

Dzhudzhe:
One word would be enough to describe this little critter - short, even for a khazad. However, it seems what was taken from him in height has been added in width. The large tummy, together with the chubby cheeks and fat lips is all it takes to make this dwarf get mistaken with a walking barrel. The leather cap and short reddish beard make some attempt to bring a general idea of khazadness to the little being, yet with limited success. Apparently the leather trousers are also doomed to failure. It is only thanks to the large dark eyes and the small reddish nose that in a way identify this fellow as a member of the dwarven race. 
As for the remaining picture - a pair of leather boots, a touch woolen shirt and a ragged leather vest are all there is. Oh, and naturally a leather belt which is like the metal ring of a barrel... which is slightly tight.

Barzyn:
Before you is a small, tough looking dwarf. He wears a long black cloak which is drapped around him, and fastened by an elaborate broach of some sort. His head is covered by a black helmet, and attached to that is a brightly coloured mask which covers his whole face. Underneath his cloak, you can see the dull gleam of chain mail, but over the top of that, is a shining silver ring on a chain. He holds in his right hand a small half shield. In his left hand he holds a large battle axe, which he swings around carelessly. Now and again he strokes his long brown beard, with a strange and distant look in his eyes. 

Dolmed's Horn Inn
Brightly lit and cheerful, the inn is comfortable rather than beautiful. Heavy wooden tables are set about the room, and a tapestry on one wall adds colour. A heavy door, left ajar, leads to a back room for private parties.
Table code is in effect here. Type thelp for table commands.

Contents:
Olandu
Dzhudzhe
Barzyn, Master Silversmith and Lord Alameg
Dagnor
Rogin the Innkeeper
Obvious exits:
 Out leads to Market Place.


It is morning, hardly the usual time for an inn to be full of dwarves.. that is qithout reason. Today reason there is and it could be described in one word - dzhudzhe. Actually to be perfectly honest it has nothing to do with the fat dwarf watsoever, with the small exception of something he has in his possession - a rather peculiar shield. The same object, even not for now covered with a routh brownish cloth, has made it possible for him to find probably the most confortable place in the inn - near the tapestry. 
"And then I be saying to meself, Dzhu, old soul, why ye be folloing the old ways? There might be much more elsewhere.. some place where no pick has dented the stone, and that is where hit with mine," the stori goes on still.

Dagnor , from a table in the back corner of the Inn notices the Miner sitting next to his ever-present shield. "G'day kind Dzhudzde, it has been a long time... . How fare thee? Are the mines treating you well as of late," he says as he strides toward the rotund Khazad.

The tavern door flys open, and the hustle and bustle of Tumuzahar and it's market place drowns the inn. Striding in, a tough looking dwarf adorned in rich clothing and the sign of House Alameg makes his way through, and then shuts the door behind him. Nodding and saying hello to a few of his Serfs, he strolls over to the bar. Ordering an ale, he leans against it and watches the growing group by the tapestry.

Olandu stands in the doorway of the back room her ale held firmly in one hand and her shoulder propped against the door jam. her feet crossed. She looks the picture of relaxed Khazad and yet anyone actually looking at her eyes knows this is not so. she is listening and listening closely

A quick nods and the unmistakable sign to remain quiet come from Dzhudzhe as he gontinues his story, gesticulating wildly as he does so. "And then I be going along a dark tunnel, darker that the smoke from the greatest fire, darkest than tha darkest coal.." a few laughs indicate he this one hasn't learned the ard of tall lates too well. Getting the hint the khazad returns to more modest proportions. "It be dark anyway.. and ther I be thinking to myself 'who be a fool to be trying here'?" 
"So ye were the fool?" a yell is heard followed by laughter.

Trying stoicly to stiffle his laugther, Dagnor covers his mouth with his hand. Once under control, he takes a long pull from his ale...knowing full well this will be a long story. He gently plops down at a nearby table.

Taking a long drink at the bar, the Lord Alameg nods to the barman and then turns around to watch the Khazad miner tell his tale. Chuckling as hecklers interupt him, he walks nochanently over and stands there. Recognising him as one of his old serfs, the Lord watches Dzhudzhe and his item carefully.

A Young waitress brings a mug of ale and a plate of sandwiches Asand sits it in from Dzhudzhe. She nods to Olandu and offers, "From her Sir" then returns to the bar and her duties

Olandu nods and smiles at the storyteller, "continue"but it is mor order than request.

Waiting a while till all the rhubard vanishes (which is to say becomes slightly less loud than the clinging of a hammer upon an anvil) the dwarf goes on, giving ranging glances at everyone. "So.. " hesays a looks about again. There still are signs of laughter upon some faces. "So.. I simply went there did this, blah blah," he says hurriedly, worried not to loose his audience, "And be finfing meself this.." he takes the chield covvered with cloth. 
"Where did you steal that from?" laughter is heard. 
"Does yer lord know ye have ben stealing from the armoury?" 
HOwever, when the cloth is briskly removed it is obvious that this shield wasn't stolen.. not from the armoury at least.

This ancient-looking shield looks as if it has been recently polished by a loving hand. The design on its silvery surface looks like a coiled serpent, the gilded snake-head serving as the shield-boss. It is composed of adarcer and inlaid with mithril filigree.

Dagnor drops his jaw in amazement, never before has he seen craftsmanship like he sees before him now. "Brilliant," he exclaims with a drawn face that seems to be yearning for more information.

The Barazin Lord leans forward slightly to get a better view of the shield, stroking his beard he takes a quick drink and then says "Aye, a nice shield it is too...." Pushing some of the dwarves out of the way to get closer, he asks "What's that pattern on the front?...Well, i'm sure it's just an old antique and probably only worth a couple a silver pieces at most..."

Olandu stands abruptly and is about to shift so that she too can see it closer, "Where found you this? All mining is directed and we should have heard of a find such as this." then realizing Lord Alameg's approach is the better one, she shuts up and leans against the wall slightly closer.

Hearing words like 'Brilliant' and "Magnificent' Dzhudzhe seems to grow in size.. if that is possible. When he hears the mention of 'a few silver coins' he quickly glances in the directinof the words' owner. However, seeing this is his lord his expression changes. Slowly, painfully, yet it changes. "Well, it be old indeed, lord," he says unwillingly lancing at the shield. "But i be making special attention it be nice and shiney. And there hardly be a scratch on it although the the one who had it were little more than crushed..." again the exagerating. "Well... I be dropping it a few times.. from high.." he slides a hand over its silverish surface.

Looking at the hefty Khazad inquisitively, Dagnor ponders as to the meaning of Dzhudzhe's words... . Twisting at a simple silver band about his wrist, one of his prized posessions, he jelously realizes the more adventuresome lives that other Khazad lead whilst he spends his days within the confines of his workshop.

Lord Barzyn listens to his serf's words and then reaches out to touch the shield. His hand glides over the polished silver surface and a faint twinkle can just be seen to appear in his eyes. Shaking his head, he looks carefully at Dzhudzhe and then immediately turns his attention back to the shield. "That pattern...it looks...like a serpant, but it is too large to be of one from near the mountains. And i have never heard or seen of one such as that...Maybe, no..." His voice trails off and his eyes stay glued to the silver pattern.

Fighting the urge to pull the shield away from Barzyn Dzhudzhe nods slowly. "Ahh A serpant maybe.. probabaly of the pointed ears I'd wager," instictively he touches his small pouch hanging from his belt. "That be what one of its owners be. Hardly the bones of any... even those slightly taller than myself," here he looks about to make ti clear that he doen't regard himself as short, nor fat for that matter. "Even in that case again there be no doubt that it belonged to no khazad." he crosses his arms, forgetting to hold the shild. With a band it falls on the gound. Quicker than a rat, far too quicker than anyone would imagince him capable of, the dwarf then darts hand to catch it.. and as a result falls over landing on the shield itself. At least it will be safe now..

Dagnor scowls at Dzhudzhe's apparent lack of coordination. "My father used to recite great legends to me as a child. Is it possible that this be a relic from those epic tales? Wherever it came from, I must agree, it was not made in our lands,"

As the shield drops towards the ground, Barzyn's hand shoots out to grab it. He gets a light grip on it, but is knocked out of the way by the falling miner causing the crowd to burst out in laughter. Growling as he stands up, he says in an abrupt manner. "Ok then friend, take us to where you found this shield....that is, if your story is true and not just a pack of lies." Snorting, Lord Alameg turns towards the door and waits for Dzhudzhe to lead the way.

"Lies.." the dwarf grumbles as he stands up.. helped by at least htree others. He definitely seems hurt by the remark. Still grumbling he leaves the inn leading the way. Naturally the shield is not lost from sight.. or touch.

You pull on the handle and walk out onto the market place.

Market Place
This is an enormous cavern. It still has its natural shape, but the walls, floor, and ceiling have been made smooth. Along the walls, permanent stalls have been carved out, where things that need more protection are sold. Rows of wooden stalls cover the floor of the cavern, selling almost everything imaginable. Nearest the door are the food stalls.

Obvious exits:
 Grand Archway leads to Second Landing.
Cargo Lift  Armor Shop  Weapons Shop  Music Shop  Inn  Crafts Shop  

You pass under the grand archway and leaving the overhwlemingly enormous cavern behind you as you step onto the landing.
Second Landing
This large semicurcular landing has three large passageways branching from it. The largest of the three is a pair of monstrous double doors directly opposite the stairwell, which plainly lead to a large hall of some sort. To the far left of that lies a large portal of stone, from which emanates the smells and sounds of food and drink, while the shouts and calls of the market place arise from a huge archway to the right.
Obvious exits:
 Baths leads to Baths.
 Grand Archway leads to Market Place.
 Double Doors leads to Main Hall.
 Stone Portal leads to Feasting Hall.
 Up leads up Thrar's Stair.
 Down leads down Thrar's Stair.

You climb down the twisting stairs as the make their way to the third landing where you eventualy arrive.
Third Landing
This third level deep on the great stair of Nogrod is another semicircular chamber, turned one hundred and eighty degrees from the last, as the stair has turned a full circle and a half from either of the two landings above and below it. This landing is full of the noise of hammers on anvils, and the tools of Dwarven craftsmen. Through a pair of ornate double doors lies the Guild Headquarters of Nogrod, and down another hall, to the left of that, seems to lie the source of the noise which echoes through this chamber.
Obvious exits:
 Double Door leads to Guild Hall.
 Hall leads to Smithies.
 Up leads up Thrar's Stair.
 Down leads down Thrar's Stair.

You make your way down the twisting stairs as the delve further and further down.
Fourth Landing
This semicircular room is the fourth deep in the chain of landings connected by the great central stair of Nogrod. Around the wall of the chamber lie three passages, one a solid and sturdy Oaken Door, and to each side of that an archway, one leading to the hospital, and the other to the Library.
Contents:
Dzhudzhe
Obvious exits:
 Open Passage leads to Hall of Records.
 Archway leads to Infirmary.
 Oaken Door leads to Training Hall.
 Up leads up Thrar's Stair.
 Down leads down Thrar's Stair.

You walk down further into the mountain along the winding stairway.
Fifth Landing
This semicircular landing of the main stairwell of Nogrod is richly decorated, the walls covered with murals and tapestries depicting the royal house Zirak of Nogrod. Many of the inlays in the walls are done in silver including the large inlay of the seal of Nogrod over the golden archway through which the Throne Room lies. To the far left of that archway, is a large silver inlaid door which bears the seal of Nogrod as well, over the private seal of the Zirak House. To the right of the entrance to the Throne Room there is another sturdy wooden door, this one bound with Iron and undecorated. Guards of the Royal Household stand on each side of all three passages, their stern eyes seeking out all who pass by.
Contents:
Dzhudzhe
Royal Guardsmen
Obvious exits:
 Heavy Oaken Door leads to Council Chambers.
 Silver Inlaid Door leads to Zirak Dwelling.
 Gilded Passage leads to Throne Room.
 Up leads up Thrar's Stair.
 Down leads down Thrar's Stair.

You continue down the stairs, descending by the light of the torches set in the walls, as you twist your way down to the depths of the mountain.
Sixth Landing
A round chamber with a domed ceiling, dominated by a spiral staircase in the center. The walls are a dark grey, with large torches set into the walls well out of reach. The floor has been inlaid with a simple geometric pattern in red and blue stone. The air is fresh and slightly cool, although no air vents are visible. A simple staircase leads downwards from one side of the landing, and a winding passage begins at the opposite side.
Obvious exits:
 Tunnel leads to Miners Hall.
 Lake leads to Waterfall Lake.
 Up leads up Thrar's Stair.

Miners Hall
This hall is long, and leads from the landing downwards, though the incline is slight. Upon the far end of the chamber lies the dark tunnel which leads into the mines of the Ered Luin. The room itself is utilitarian in nature, from the gears and cables which are attached to the lift for the ore which must be brought up to the third level, to the tracks and empty ore-carts which line and crowd the floor.
Obvious exits:
 Mines leads to Mines.
 Tunnel leads to Sixth Landing.
Cargo Lift  

You take an extra torch from the wall and descend to the mines on a smooth staircase.
Mines
The mine here is black as soot, with the lights of small torches illuminating small areas of rough rock. From the lights and echoes, it is obvious that this area is enormous. As your eyes adjust, you can see that the floor has been smoothed out to make work easier. In the distance, you can see an odd multicoloured glow. Staring at it, you can see that it is light shining from hundreds of precious stones and metals, in another area of the mine. The staircase to the landing is nearby, easily seen by the brighter light shining from the landing above.
Contents:
Dagnor
Dzhudzhe
Obvious exits:
 South leads to Mines.
 Up leads to Miners Hall.

You crawl through a small tunnel and find yourself in a dark cave.
Small Cave
A small cave opens up suddenly out of the tiny passageway. Though it is completely unlit, if you carry a torch you might be able to make out two skeletons lying here. By the size of the bones, one skeleton appears to be a Dwarf while the other is a Man or Elf. Though the cave is small in width, it's height is undeterminable. The roof must lie many many feet above the floor.
Obvious exits:
 Out leads to Mines.

Trough shafts, mines and tunnels the dwarves pass lead by fatso.. err.. Dzhudzhe. The good news is that he is going to lead then to the place where the shield had been found.. thebad news that he ahs no idea where he is going. MAny turns seem to be 'false' ones and if is well after some time tha the proper cave is reached. "Here be it," the dwarf says holding a torch with his left hand tightly pressign the shield against his stomak with the other.

The entire group of Khazad finally makes it through into the small tunnel and Barzyn once again strides forward, this time with a torch. Looking about in the corners, he finally stops on the two skeletons. Motioning over a hitherto unseen dwarf, Barzyn whispers something to him about records and then sends him scurrying away. Turning back to Dzhudzhe Barzyn says "Well then, a fine little mess you've discovered....This one is definetly a dwarf" He says while pointing to the small skeleton, "...But this one, i dont know...What do you lot think?" He says this looking around at everyone, and invites answers to come floding in.

Dagnor says, "I'm not quite sure...much taller than a Khazad, but still small framed. I would venture to say it be that of a pointy ear. What say you Dzhudzhe?"

"POinty, ahh, that be it," The dwarf says paying more attetion to his shield than ahything else. "Me be thinking these two be fighting for it.. and as a reult both be dying. Therefore it be beyond dount that the shield be my rihtful possession.." he says firmly.

Barzyn nods at the guesses of the two dwarfs. "Aye, an elf be it in my thoughts...but as to the ownership of the shield i think i may have something to do with it, my Serf." Moving closer to the miner and pushing others out of the way, Barzyn stares into his eyes "I am your Lord, so by right anything you find belongs to me...and over the shield lest i take it..." The Lord ALameg cares not for the whispering and stares directed at him from other Khazad but instead concentrates on the shield and it's holder.

With a sigh the dwarf looks at the shield. "Mayhaps I could.. guard it for ye, lord?" a bright 24 carrot smile shines on his face. This is definitely his last hope.

Dagnor steps forth through the crowd toward the two Baraz. "Milord, is it not true that we are all serfs to the King. We should examine the situation and consider what is best for all."

Barzyn nods, "Aye, maybe ya could...And ye be right of course my friend..." Looking about, he then sighs and says "Well, i must leave you to debate over this..wonder...for i have meeings to attend to with my fellow Lords...Good day to you all." Barzyn then turns and strides as quickly as possible out of the cave.

However, even before the lord has managed to leave the cave anotehr has beaten him to it. With incredible speed.. or rather gravity of a falling dwarf pulled by his stomach. Whatever the case Dzhudzhe ruhes out, carrying theshield with him. One could never know when BArzyn could change his mind.

Dagnor shrugs his shoulders, contemplating how he got himself into this situation. He crawls back through the narrow passage in pursuit of the hefty Khazad, leaving the two skeletons to entertain themsevles.
