Daytime (About 8AM) on Trewsday of Summer - June 9, 459


Barzyn:
The Khazad before you is of average height and stocky build. He wears brown
leather breaches which cover most of his shoes down at his feet. His tunic is
red and silver, representing the Houses Baraz and Zinbar respectively. On the
left breast of his tunic is the dwarven emblem reserved for the personal use by
the Lord of House Alameg. 
 His features are young, with a long shaggy brown beard and hair. Yet his eyes
show wisdom beyond his years, and his hands show the scars of battle and years
of hard work. The only piece of jewelry he wears is around his neck, it is a
small silver ring on a golden chain.

Dzhudzhe:
One word would be enough to describe this little critter - short, even for a
khazad. However, it seems what was taken from him in height has been added in
width. The large tummy, together with the chubby cheeks and fat lips is all it
takes to make this dwarf get mistaken with a walking barrel. The leather cap
and short reddish beard make some attempt to bring a general idea of khazadness
to the little being, yet with limited success. Apparently the leather trousers
are also doomed to failure. It is only thanks to the large dark eyes and the
small reddish nose that in a way identify this fellow as a member of the
dwarven race. 
As for the remaining picture - a pair of leather boots, a touch woolen shirt
and a ragged leather vest are all there is. Oh, and naturally a leather belt
which is like the metal ring of a barrel... which is slightly tight.

Olandu:
This female is about 4 feet 7 inches. she is slender for a dwarf and yet
strong. She has dark brown eyes and short reddish brown hair that is pulled
back behind a leather band. Her beard is soft and set with small beads. Her
arms are smooth and muscular and her hands are delicate for a dwarf. Her
fingers are long and have amazing dexterity. There are callouses and scars upon
her hands giving them character.The nails short and well cared for. She wears a
long blue shift of soft weave. It has a scoop neck and no sleeves. It is slit
to the hips and under she wears darker blue leggings. She looks actually quite
feminine. Her toes wiggle in pleasure upon the ground. about her second toe on
the left foot is a silver ring


Dolmed's Horn Inn
Brightly lit and cheerful, the inn is comfortable rather than beautiful. Heavy
wooden tables are set about the room, and a tapestry on one wall adds colour. A
heavy door, left ajar, leads to a back room for private parties.
Table code is in effect here. Type thelp for table commands.

Contents:
Dzhudzhe
Rogin The Innkeeper
Obvious exits:
 Out leads to Market Place.
 
The early morning crowd is just beginning to leave the inn for their work, as
the Barazin Lord Alameg pushes the opposite way and finally reaches an empty
space. Looking about, he sees no one of interest so sidles up to the bar and
begins to converse with Rogin. Taking a sip of the drink that was automatically
placed in front of him, the conversation wafts quietly around the tavern and
other khazad look up as words are raised involving the Narag Lord Umahal.
Shaking his head, Barzyn turns around quickly and the barkeeper goes back to
cleaning glasses. Leaning against the bar, Barzyn waits for something to happen
or someone interesting to enter.

And soon enough something on interest does enter. No one of importance, but of
interest surely. The all to familiar lately plump Dzhudzhe khazad makes his way
into the inn, followed by a small crowd of other dwarves. Naturally, none of
them _are_ following him.. They just happen to be walking behind him. "Lord.."
the dwarf quickly looks about in search of Barzyn. "Lord.. Lord.." he finally
spots him and as quick as he could makes his way in that direction. "May yer
beard grow to the ground, and may yer gold rise above the mountain.." he begins
in the usual khazad style.

Barzyn looks up from his drink and smiles as he sees Dzhudzhe enter the inn.
Motioning the miner over to him, Barzyn takes a drink. Slowly wiping the foam
of his moustache, he doesn't say anything and makes Dzhudzhe wait. Finally,
after some minutes, he places his pitcher onto the bar and says with a slight
bow "Aye Dzhudzhe, what is it ya want? Found any more shields lately?"
Chuckling, he waves the following Khazad away with a brisk gesture and a frown,
and then waits for an answer.

The comment seems to make the dwarf's face turn slightly redder. "That is
exactly the problem, lord," he turns around. A small group of dwarves,
somewhere between five and ten begin to look in all directions, evading his
glance. "That be what everyone been asking me.. for the past week. So I be
thinking maybe something is to be done about it, lord? Maybe an. expedition in
hope more shields are found?"

Barzyn listens to Dzhudzhe's words and nods slowly. "Aye, but did you not here
what the Naugladur said? He will not have any khazad running about and getting
paid on what could be a wild goose chase." Stroking his beard, Barzyn picks up
his mug and takes a drink. "No, he will not have it and i will not have it done
on paid time...However..." The Lord continues with a smile "...If you wish to
gather a group and do some searching in your spare time, I'm sure we could come
to some..arangement..whereby you are funded for your work..." Looking about, he
glares at the dwarves listening close by and motions Dzhudzhe over towards a
quiet table in the corner.

The answer does not seem to please the other too much, but he would be a fool
to say that, not in front of his lord. "Ahh.. that be true, lord.." he looks
again over his shoulder in an attempt to make the group of pesky dwarves look
elsewhere. This again works only for a few moments. "And since we be talking
about paid.. lord. I be thinking.. this shield be a pretty trophy for ye. Now I
know I be only guarding it.. yet maybe I be earning something for the find? It
was a difficult way to get it.." here he begins again with his overglorious
adventures.

Olandu enters the Inn looking about. she sees the usual riff raff and those out
to be seen and in the darkest corner Lord Alameg and the miner with the oh so
special shield. She accepts a cup of mead from the bartender and heads in that
direction Smiling and nodding to those she knows until she can sit at a table
close to those she wishes to observe.

Sitting down opposite the miner, Barzyn nods and a wry smiles crosses his lips.
Taking a drink, he then answers "Aye, I'm sure it was difficult and i remember
your stories well...i think everyone does..." This gets a muffled laugh from
the eavesdropping dwarves and the Lord Alameg smiles "..But you're right, and
we might as well get straight down to business...how much do ya want for it?
And if i pay ya, i want full ownership with no questions asked..."

It is difficult to say whether it is a smile that appears on the dwarf's face,
or a grumbling expression. Whatever the case the dwarf decides to barter for
the shield. Maybe he ahs enough sense not to keep it somewhere it could be
stole. And anyway it belongs to the lord.. or maybe. "Aye, that be what we be
bargaining about, lord," the fat one rubs his hands. "And I be thinking...
maybe I am to be made a lord?" A great demand no doubt, yet the sparkle in the
dwarf's eyes indicates he is serious. "A small lord, milord.."

Olandu snorts without thinking and tries to cover it with a cough, then does
chuckle at the small part but she does not interfere in the Lord's bargaining,
just listens.. For who does the shield truly belong. And can it be sold? An
Icon of this past belongs to everyone and she is about to comment but refrains
to see what happens next.

Barzyn laughs loudly as the miner talks about becoming a Lord, and then he
looks up and stares at Olandu for a moment, a gleam present in his eyes "Ah,
you laugh Olandu but what do you think should be the price of the shield?".
Shaking his head, he answers Dzhudzhe's question. "Well cousin, i think ya
getting a little too big for yer boots. I have no power to make ya a Lord, and
even if i did it wouldn't be allowed..." Shrugging, Barzyn decides to stop
reasoning with his Serf and instead draws out a small pouch. Throwing it down
onto the table, a dull clunk rings around the inn causing the present khazad to
stop what they are doing and look for the source of the noise.

As much as the shield finder is willing to go on with his demands the pouch
does indeed have the effect it should. "That me my second choice, lord," he
nods turning towards the pouch. And still there is aprt of him that is slightly
disappointed. "Maybe ye could help me join the silver clan, then lord?" he
raises a brow, this time turning towards Olandu. He is in fact quite curious
whether she will laugh again.

unable to help herself, she asks, "Why do you wish to belong to the Clan of
Silver. It is a nest of rabid back biting....." she pauses a slight smile
flitting across her features, "There is allot of intrigue with in the clan"

Barzyn shrugs as Dzhudzhe refuses the pouch, and replaces back in a pocket. "If
ya don't want it...But yer know House Zirak is for the Royal family only, and
their servants...If ya want to be one of them then yer gotta work hard and get
noticed by my Lord Baraz...then you may get taken in by the King." Taking a
drink, Lord Alameg sighs as Olandu speaks "You should not talk like that
Olandu...you could get into a bit of trouble if anyone ever found out..."
Shrugging, he turns back to the miner and says "Make your mind up soon, the
offer will not stand for long as i could easily take it by...other means..."
Smiling, he waits to watch his Serfs reaction.

The last said by Barzyn seems to make Dzhudzhe make his mind pretty quick. "A
deal, lord," he quickly makes his way to the pouch and grabs it. "And although
ye be saying no questions.. I will be asking. When am I to bring the shield and
where?" he looks sideways to Olandu, making it clear that there are a few
things he wishes to say to her once this is over.

Olandu smiles at the short dwarf but says nothing. She sips her mead and awaits
further developments

Barzyn smiles and nods, "Good, i am glad you have seen sense." Relinquishing
his grip on the pouch he lets Dzhudzhe take the gold coins, "If you would bring
it to my halls, that would be acceptable..." Stroking his beard and shuffles
about to make himself more comfortable now that the business is over. "Bring it
around tonight sometime, i will be around then." Finishing his ale, he motions
to the barkeeper for another and then looks to Olandu. "Come, why don't you
join us now?"

"Aye," the dwarf not pleased with his gains turns to Olandu, naturally placing
the pouch safely under his vest. "Why don't ye?" There is more in his offer
than simply that. From the grin on his face it could be seen he wants to make
some fun f her. At least to get back at her for laughing while he made his
demands. had he nod made such absurd demands the price for the shield might
have been lowered.

Olandu stands and moves towards the table, "Thank you gentle dwarves for the
invite." she sits but she takes her eyes not off the miner. "You should have
held out.. they would have given even more than a lord ship for the shield"

Barzyn chuckles as Olandu speaks, "More than a Lord ship? i think yer may be
mistaken...it is but an old shield, a nice one but nothing special...It'll be
nice to have it sitting on my wall." Receiving his drink, Barzyn whispers
something to the barman about telling Lord Narag he has the shield and then
sits quietly and listens to the conversation between the two.

The grin on the other dwarf's face widens if that is at all possible. "Ahh, yet
he who has the shield also has them.." and he points at someone behind his
back. No one in particular, just dwarves. Each of them wanting to get a glimpse
at the shield, and each of them wanting to find one of their own. "And who
knows.. maybe there might be others. That me be thinking.. maybe ye would care
try yer luck as well, Olandu?"

Olandu nods, "I see your point. Are you going out again to find another?" she
looks at Lord Alameg and shakes her head.

The Lord looks up and with a smile he shakes his head, "I'm not letting him
look for more on my time..." Finishing his ale, Barzyn places the empty pitcher
on the table and looks over to the group of khazad which has now grown
slightly. "As for them, i shouldn't have to much trouble keeping them away...a
few extra shifts at work should do the trick fer most of 'em..." Raising his
voice just loud enough for them to hear, Barzyn chuckles and looks back to
Olandu with a questioning stare.

Strangely enough Dzhudzhe seems to shake his head, yet remains silent for a
while. "I think it be time I be going back to work.." he says moving away. "In
yer halls, right?" he asks then turns around. yet one could say that for the
briefest of moment a weird smile crossed the khazad's face. As if he were
planning something. Or maybe everyone was simply imagining things..

Olandu watches the dwarf and sees the smile and the twinkle in his eyes and
murmurs to Barzyn, "Do not trust him...as I told him about you" something is
more here than it seems

The Lord nods his head in acknowledgement of Dzhudzhe and says "Aye, that might
not be a bad idea..." Watching him carefully, Barzyn then turns to Olandu and
says "Aye Olandu, i do not doubt ya, but we will see what happens soon...Well,
i must be off as well and attend to some business." Standing, he bows slightly
and then turns and walks out of the door, nodding to some of the khazad as he
does so.
