Notes:

1. I have described Fëanor, Fingolfin, etc. as the first generation because their parents were not, strictly speaking, a generation. The English word generation derives from the Latin generare, to beget. Those that awoke at Cuiviénen (Ingwë, Finwë, etc.) were created fully grown, so they were not begotten (except perhaps in the mind of Ilúvatar). Thus they do not constitute a generation.

2. I have included only 'canonical' charcters, i.e. only those mentioned in The Silmarillion. Not the 'apocryphal' ones that appear at times in The History of Middle-earth. For example: Findis, Faniel, and Írimë, sisters of Fingolfin (HoMe 10); Argon, younger brother of Fingon and Turgon (reportedly HoMe 12); Findobar, son of Fingon (HoMe 5); and Haldir (HoMe 5 & 11) and Orodlin (HoMe 5) sons of Orodreth.

3. The naming of Amrod and Amras is reportedly very complicated and will have to await my obtaining HoMe 12.

4. If only one name is known I am assuming it is the ataressë.

5. The Sindarin form of Ilrissë was Ilreth.

6. The name Findaráto is from the Telerin dialect of Quenya, the Noldorin form of the name was Artafindë. Remember that Finrod's mother was Eärwen of Alqualondë, daughter of King Olwë of the Teleri.

7. The naming of Orodreth is very complicated and will have to await HoMe 12. Orodreth himself is also problematic. In The Silmarillion he is a son of Finarfin, however Tolkien later 'demoted' him. Making him a member of the next generation of that same family - i.e. a son of either Angrod or Aegnor, but of which one is not stated.

8. The name Angaráto is from the Telerin dialect of Quenya, the Noldorin form of the name was Artanga.

9. The epessë Altariellë is said to have been first given to Galadriel by Celeborn.

10. The name Gil-galad is a Sindarin epessë, his Sindarin birth name was Ereinion. As Gil-galad may have been born in Middle-earth, he may not have been given a Quenya name.

11. The Sindarin form of the epessë Taltelemna was Celebrindal.

12. Maeglin was born in Beleriand and was given that (Sindarin) name by his father. His mother secretly named him Lómion (Quenya). It is not stated what he was called at the Court of Turgon in Gondolin where Quenya was in daily use.